<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 18(2): 45-47, 1994 Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest The treatment of spatial data in probabilistic classification D. W. Goodall CSIRO Division of Wildlife and Ecology, Midland, Western Australia, 6056 Australia Keywords: Affinity index, Deviant index, Numerical taxonomy, Similarity, Spatial pattern Abstract The Similarity Index, Affinity Index and Deviant Index described previously as probability-based tools for use in numerical taxonomy are extended to cover attributes, such as geographical distribution, which can be described in terms of quantities in spatially defined cells - for instance, the squares of a grid. Introduction A procedure for classification has been described, based on the null hypothesis that the values of different attributes of the entities being classified ("Operational Taxonomie Units" - "OTU's") are randomly and in- dependently assorted among them, and that separation into classes is justified only when this null hypothesis can be disproved, at a satisfactory level of sig- nificance. For this purpose, probabilistic indices of similarity (Goodall 1964, 1966a), deviation (Goodall 1966b) and affinity (Goodall 1968) have been described. These techniques have been applied to the classification of micro-organisms (Goodall 1966c), higher plants (Clifford &amp; Goodall 1967, Simon &amp; Goodall 1968) and plant communities (Goodall &amp; Feoli 1990). A recent paper (Goodall, 1993) extended the technique to cover cases where an attribute could take a variety of values within each of the OTU' s under consideration. Attributes considered may be qualitative, ordered, cir- cular, or metric ~ that is, expressible by the value of a real variable such as height. So far, however, attributes which involve spatial patterns (such as the geographi- cal distribution of a plant species) have not been seriously addressed. In a publication on Drosera species (Goodall and Marchant, in press), for instance, the geographical distribution of each taxon was described in terms of a small number of binary vari- ables (e.g., presence or absence in South-Western Australia), which clearly is unlikely to do justice to the volume of information available for this attribute. An extension of the method to cover such attributes is proposed. The methods Let us suppose that, for the y'th OTU, the attribute k can be described in terms of a spatially defined set of cells (the squares of a geographical grid, for instance, or the islands of an archipelago), within each of which the attribute takes a different value - population den- sity of a species, for instance - so that the value of the attribute k for OTU j in the c'th cell is xcjk The position of the c'th cell is defined by the coor- dinates of its centroid: {aCi bc). Let us further suppose that these values are scaled, so that xcjk = 1 c Similarity index First, considering how an attribute of this type can be incorporated into the similarity index already described, we require a Dissimilarity Function Dp which will express the difference, in terms of this att- ribute k, between two OTU' s i and j. The distance of the centroid of cell c from that of cell d is [(ac-ad)2 + (bc-bd)2]lA</page><page sequence="2">46 Goodall: Spatial data in probabilistic classification Then the weighted mean distance over the whole area of units of population i from units of population j is Dijk = ^ 51 Xc'ik Xdjk l(ac ~ ad) + Q*c ~ ^d) ] c d The value of D¡jk will be zero only where the OTU' s i and j are both present only in the same single cell. In other cases, it expresses the average distance between a randomly chosen unit of i and a randomly chosen unit of. /. Given this function D¡jk, it is possible to order all OTU pairs according to their differences in respect of attri- bute k. One then requires the probability that any arbitrary pair of OTU' s will differ in respect of this attribute by at least as much as the pair {p,q} under discussion. Let the number of pairings in the whole population for which Dijk ^ Dpqk be Gpqk and the number of OTU' s for which attribute k has been recorded be Nk. Then the probability required is estimated by Ppqk = 2Gpqk/{Nt¿Nk-l)} This probability estimate Ppqk can then be combined with the corresponding probabilities for all other attri- butes, as described in the previous paper (Goodall 1993). Affinity index This expresses the affinity of a particular OTU to a defined subset of the OTU' s within the whole popula- tion, and is the complement of the probability that a random selection of all attribute values outside this subset would fall within those included in the subset. For a spatially defined variable of the type considered here, let us calculate the average value over the subset of xcik in each cell. Where A is the subset, this average value is cAk ~ 51 X-cik / N Ak ieA where i designates an OTU within the subset A, and N'Ak is the number of OTU' s within the subset for which attribute k has been recorded. The Affinity Function providing an ordering principle for the OTU' s outside the subset (analogous to the Dif- ference Function for the Similarity Index) is then FAjk = XX xcjkx'dAk V(ac-ad)2 + {bc-bd)2][/l c d where j is an OTU outside the subset A. Again, this quantity is evaluated for all OTU' s outside the subset, and, for one such OTU q , the number of them for which F Ajk ^ FAqk is determined to be MAqk. The probability of the degree of affinity for the subset A in respect of attribute k is then estimated as /V = 2MAqk / f(Nk - N'Ak) (Nk - N'k - 1 )} Deviant index This expresses the probability that an OTU in the set might by chance assortment of attribute values deviate as much from the "norm" of the set as does the par- ticular OTU in question. The "norm" and deviations from it are defined differently for each class of attribu- te. If B is the complementary subset to the OTU j under discussion, let us calculate the mean value of the attri- bute within B for each cell: x'cBk = 5^ xcik / N* Bk, i*j where N'Bk is the number of OTU' s in B for which att- ribute k has been recorded. Then, analogously with the Dissimilarity Function and the Affinity Function, we define a Deviation Function Tjk for OTU j and attribute k as Tjk = X X Xcik x'jBk [(ac - ad )2 (bc - bd ff2 c d Again, this is calculated for all OTU' s for which attri- bute k is recorded. If Lqk is the number of OTU' s for which Tjk ^ Tqk one estimates the probability of a deviation as great as that of OTU q , in respect of attribute kt as Pqk = 2Lqk / (Nk(Nk-l)} where Nk is again the total number of OTU's for which attribute k has been rcorded. Then Pqk is the contribu- tion of attribute k to the deviant index, which is com- bined with that for all other attributes in the way described previously (Goodall 1993).</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 18(1 994) 47 Discussion The account above has been written in terms of such an attribute as the geographical distribution of a population. It seems likely that attributes of this sort would be those most likely to call for this treatment, but one can envisage others - the distribution of pig- mentation over an animal' s surface, for instance, or the geographical distribution of gene frequency. Any att- ribute expressed in terms of a quantity varying in space can be treated in this way- always provided that the quantities in the different cells sum to unity. If their ab- solute magnitude is relevant, as well as their spatial distribution, then the average value of this absolute magnitude can be included in the analysis as a separate independent (metric) attribute. References Clifford, H. Ť. and Goodall, D. W. 1967. A numerical contribution to the classification of the Poaceae. Aust. J. Bot. 15: 499-519. Goodall, D. W. 1964. A probabilistic similarity index. Nature, Lond. 203: 1098. Goodall, D. W. 1966a. A new similarity index based on probability. Biometrics 22: 882-905. Goodall, D. W. 1966b. Deviant Index: a new tool for numerical taxonomy. Nature, Lond. 210: 216. Goodall, D. W. 1966c. Numerical taxonomy of bacteria: some published data re-examined. J. gen. Microbiol. 42: 25-37. Goodall, D. W. 1968. Affinity between an individual and a cluster in numerical taxonomy. Biométrie-Praximétrie 9: 52-55. Goodall, D. W. 1993. Probabilistic indices for classification ~ Some extensions. Abs. Bot. 17: 125-132. Goodall, D. W. and Feoli, E. 1990. Application of probabilistic methods in the analysis of phytosociological data. Coenoses 1: 1-9. Simon, J. P. and Goodall, D. W. 1968. Relationship in annual species of Medicago VI. Two-dimensional chromatography of the phenolics and analysis of the results by probabilistic similarity methods. Aust. J. Bot. 16: 89-100.</page></plain_text>