<plain_text><page sequence="1">360 to be present. The quantity of sulphate of barytes produced from 100 grains of sulphate of lime was accordingly ascertained, and found to be 175-9; and 100 grains of crystallized sulphate of mag- nesia were found to give 112 of sulphate of barytes. And since the aggregate quantity of sulphuric acid obtained from any quantity of salt examined was found to agree with the above proportions, it was inferred that no alkaline sulphate was present in any of the varieties of muriate of soda, whether of English or foreign manufac- ture. In addition to the author's account of the methods pursued in his analyses, he also mentions various objects of inquiry respecting the preparation of salt, which may be interesting to chemical readers :- such as the specific gravity of the original brine of Cheshire, and its original contents; the specific gravity of mother liquors, and their ultimate contents; the clearings of brine, which are raked out as soon as the salt begins to granulate; the pan-scale, that forms as a hard crust, attached to the pan in which the brine is evaporated; and the varieties in this scale, under different circumstances. The difference between sea-water and the brine from salt-springs is also stated, and the extreme difference also of the residua obtained from the respective mother liquors, especially in respect to muriate of magnesia; since the mother liquors of Cheshire contain only 35 parts in 1000, while that of the other amounts to 874; the mere refuse of the Cheshire processes being nearly equal in purity to some kinds of salt prepared from sea-water. Description of an extraordinary Human Foetus. In a Letter from Mr. Benjamin Gibson, Surgeon, to H. Leigh Thomas, Esq. F.R.S. Read February 8, 1810. [Phil. Trans. 1810, p. 123.] Although instances of human bodies nearly entire, united side by side, or back to back, or otherwise, are by no means rare in the col- lections of anatomists; and although such a conjunction is generally not connected with any peculiarity in the organs which compose them, and lead the physiologist to anticipate nothing curious in their inter- nal configuration ;-yet, where some parts are found double, and others single, the resources of nature become apparent in adjusting parts which have naturally no connexion. Such is the instance here de- scribed; and it appears peculiarly interesting, from the consideration, that the system of deviation was apparently compatible with life; for if the difficulty of the birth had not proved almost immediately fatal, the complexity of the structure would probably have formed no im- pediment to its existence. This curious production had two heads, placed side by side, united to one body, with two legs and two arms. The countenance of the one appeared to the author to be male, and of the other female; and the conformation of the organs of generation, which partook of both sexes, confirmed that persuasion. The trunk, though appearing as one body, was broader than natu-</page><page sequence="2">361 ral; and it was evident, even from external examination, that there were two spines corresponding to the two heads. These were found to terminate in a double os sacrum, tipped with two ossa coccygis; there were consequently two vertebral canals, independent of each other. The chest in front was nearly as usual, with the common number of ribs on each side; but there were also, in the middle of the back, short bones, which must be considered as ribs connecting the two spines to each other. The chest was divided by its mediastinum into two cavities. In the right was one lung connected with the right head, and in the left another belonging to the left head, without any mutual commu- nication. On inspecting the vascular system, there were found to be two hearts; that on the left, and corresponding with the male head, was much the larger of the two; but they both had the usual num- ber of auricles, and were inclosed in separate pericardia. The principal difference in the distribution of their vessels was ob- servable in the veins; as the vena cava superior was wanting on the right side, and the right heart received its blood by the vena cava inferior alone; wliile that on the left had its principal supply by a large vena cava superior, which brought the blood from the jugulars of the right head and right subclavian, as well as from those of its own side. But, on the contrary, the vena cava inferior was com- paratively very small. With respect to the arteries, the difference was not considerable, as they each sent off their respective aorta and pulmonary artery, and each supplied their respective head by two carotids, and their corresponding arm by one axillary artery; after which the two arches united into one trunk as descending aorta. Little irregularity was observable in the cavity of the common ab- domen, the stomach of which was connected with an cesophagus from the left head; but in a second abdominal cavity, formed by an ob- lique position of the diaphragm, there was also a smaller stomach belonging to the right head, with a spleen, pancreas, and omentum; but the duodenum from this stomach soon communicated with that from the left side, and the remainder of the intestinal canal was con- tinued onwards, with little deviation from the natural structure. The organs of generation were very remarkable, as they distinctly partook of both sexes; for though, in the external parts, the charac- ter of the male was predominant, with two testes in the act of pass- ing into the scrotum, yet, in some respects, certain deviations be- longing to the female were even here apparent; and, upon internal examination, an uterus was discovered imbedded in the posterior part of the bladder, from which Fallopian tubes were given off at each side near its upper part. The author next examined carefully the distribution of the nerves, and found, in general, extremely little connexion between them, ex- cepting at the semilunar ganglion, which was composed of nerves derived equally from both sides. Each brain, for instance, gave origin to an eighth pair of nerves,</page><page sequence="3">362 that supplied, as usual, the heart, the lungs, and the stomach be- longing to its own side of the body, and then gave branches, as usual, to the semilunar ganglion. A pair of intercostals also proceeded from each head. The left intercostal from one, and the right intercostal from the other, pro- ceeded as usual; but those which passed down between the two spines, and adjacent to each other, neither gave off nor received communicating branches, and did not form the usual ganglia, for want of all the cervical, dorsal, and lumbar nerves excepting the first cervical. The other nerves were in general distributed as if the body had had but one spine: thus tlhe nerves of the right arm were sup- plied from the right side of the right spinal marrow, and those of the left arm came from the left side of the left spinal marrow. The author next proceeds to such remarks as naturally arise from the contemplation of so singular a production. And the first obser- vation is, that although there were here combined, in the same system, duplicates of several parts, yet there appeared, upon inspec- tion, to be no reason why the functions of life might not have been properly performed. An apparent uniformity prevailed throughout, without abruptness, in the transition from the double to the single structure. Two stomachs terminated in one track of intestines, some- what more capacious than usual. Although the vascular system was furnished with two hearts, the principal vessels were arranged and united together, so that no impediment seemed to exist to the circu- lation of the blood. For regulating the supply of blood to each heart, a communication was established between the vena cava superior of one heart, and the vena cava inferior of the other. The nervous system presents also a wide field for conjecture. The function of the two brains appeared to be as independent of each other as those of any two individuals of the same family; and the reasoning faculties, it is presumed, might have been very opposite, excepting so far as they would have been influenced by the same habits, and by the same course of education; and their sensual in- clinations (if any such existed) would probably be very different. As the vital organs conspired together in carrying on the same process of life, so did the nerves of these involuntary parts unite for the same purpose, though originating from different heads. But, on the contrary, those nerves which supply the voluntary organs were as completely unconnected with each other as if they had belonged to different bodies. So that although in all involuntary and indispen- sable functions there would probablyhave been the most perfect har- mony, considerable inconvenience might have arisen, where loco- motion was concerned, if the two heads, thus inseparably coupled, had not had the same inclination.</page></plain_text>