<plain_text><page sequence="1">Àbstractâ Botanica 12:73-78, 1988 © Department of Plant Taionoiy and Ecology, KLTK, Budapest Au-boma-bed data bases for ~th.e vege-ta-tion of Latvia M. Laiviņā Latvian Research Institute of Forestry, Salaspils, Latvian SSR, USSR Abstract: Reported Ì6 the experience for creating automated data bases, including their pattern, for plant communities. A library for geographical, ecological and biological indices for vascular plants is described; the possibilities for automated map charting are discussed. Compiling automated data bases has currently become a major technical problem in geographical and biological studies. It acquires special importance when we attempt to examine the pattern and dynamics of vegetation. Data bases for biological research provide rapid access to data, their reuse and correction, uniform data processing, supplied by different researchers and covering different areas, and effective data exchange between individual data bases in different localities. An automated information system for biogeographical data banking (BETA) for the area of Latvian SSR is being created at the Latvia Forestry Research Institute of the Industrial and Research Association "Silava" (Salaspils, Latvian SSR, USSR) to solve the following problems: 1. Sy6tematization and unification of the nature-oriented research data and results obtained in Latvia at different periods of time. 2. Investigation of the pattern and functioning of ecological systems and their components, elucidation of spatial nonuniformity of biosphere over the area of Latvia. * Paper presented at the syiposiui 'Structure and Function of Kountain forest Eçosjsteas' , September 22-24, 1987, Szen tendre, Hungary</page><page sequence="2">74 3. Revealing the dynamic trends for the development of nature and society; forecasting these interdependent variations. The automated information system comprises a number of subsystems , out of which the data bases for plant cover of Latvia "PLANT COMMUNITIES, FLORA AND HERBARIUM" are considered the most advenced as to the state of readiness and the amount of information accumulated. The data base named "PLANT COMMUNITIES" incorporates: 1. The description of plant communities (according to a metho4 due to Braun-Blanquet ) for the purpose of their classification. 2. Quantitative estimation of vegetation (point-quadrat method, point-centered quarter, etc.) for continuum analyses. 3. Quantitative estimation of vegetation for the analyses of plant community dynamics. Each of the data base divisions comprises a great number of coupled members (or files) of the library set subdivided into experimental data file, feature denomination file, object denomination file (Fig. 1). The experimental data file is presented as a matrix whose columns follow the sample plot number, while the rows correspond to the features. The feature denomination file is entered in words (denomination of plant species, plant communities, etc.). For the experimental data file there is a list of objects added. Such a file, when data have been gathered over the whole area of Latvia, is of special value for a researcher as it facilitates data interpretation. An explanatory note or commentary containing additional information is appended to each experimental data file. The commentary includes the following denominations: file, size of the area under investigation (according to Haggett's logarithmic scale), ecosystem type, locality, method, type of experimental data, initial and final date for the research, researcher, reference in literature, number of features, number of objects, data format. Each file is specified by eight symbols. The first six identify the subset of descriptions and is equal for. all the corresponding divisions, the other part (two symbols) specifies the kind of file (Fig. 2). Compiling 1 Í6 t of feature denomination of the objects for each experimental data file is feasible only if the body of</page><page sequence="3">75 DATA BASE /PARTITIONED DATA SET/ SETS OF PDS MEMBERS CONTAINING EXPERIMENTAL DATA SETS OF PDS MEMBERS /WITH ALIASES/ CONTAINING NAMES OF VARIABLES J SETS OF PDS MEMBERS /WITH ALIASES/ CONTAINING NAMES OF OBJECTS Fig- 1. Structure of the data bases LAQ13 2DT EXPERIMENTAL OBJECT CODE /' DATA LAQ132 / LAQ1 3 2TX NAMES OF ļ MAYBE ' 1 1 1 1 ' ' t-' ' VARIABLES ALIASES 6 CHARACTERS ' ' 32QB NAMES 0F ' JUS® ' i 1 1 ■ 1 1 ■ 1 i 0B3ECTS UBÄUÖ M0RE 8 CHARACTERS 0B3ECTS UBÄUÖ THEN ONETIME Fig. 2. The use of member names or alias names as descriptors in data bases</page><page sequence="4">76 information is small. The growing body of initial information on Latvian plant communities and, consequently, the need for a more national accumulation of these data on magnetic carriers necessitates finding classifiers for the features and objects to be studied. The classifiers of vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens of Latvia and nearby areas and objects have by now been established for the automated information system for biogeographical data banking (Laiviņš et al. 1986). Classifiers for the plant species are based on a worded list of taxa in the sequence of subordination and their enumeration. The list comprises a full denomination of taxa in Latin and the respective abbreviations in on order as folows: family, genus, species, subspecies. Taxa numbering comprises 8 symbols wherein the first three digits (from the left) stand for a serial number of family, the next two for genus, the next two for species, and the last one for subspecies. Thi6 numbering complies with the hierarchic system of plants and is convenient for new taxa to be added to the classifier. As the numbering for vascular plant taxa, bryophytes and lichens comprises eight symbols each, a ninth symbol, a Latin letter ha6 been added to make a distinction. Besides, the vascular plant classifier includes central European taxa numbering due to Ehrendorfer and his co- workers (Ehrendorfer 1973) which comprises 7 symbols. Separately has been given taxa numbering (genus and species) based on the ample work "The USSR Flora". Only regional, i.e., one concerning the Baltic area, numbering of taxa has been used to make up the data file and for the estimations, the remaining two being passive and intended for an exchange of information with similar regional data bases. Data base "FLORA" incorporates the following: 1. Regional and local types of flora in Latvia and the nearby areas ; 2. Flora of separate plant communities (partial flora); 3. Historical flora (flora of Latvia in the 18-20th century). Data bases for each definite file describe separate types of plants - codes (numbers) for taxa classifiers for vascular plants, bryophytes and lichens. Each file is supplied with an explanatory note.</page><page sequence="5">77 Data on the herbarium of the Institute are accumulated in the data base "HERBARIUM" . It is mainly intended for the following two purposes: to print specimen labels used in the herbarium, to make up general catalogues (Laiviņā and Kalniņa 1985). Each list of the herbarium is supplied with the following data: - heading in full and abbreviated form; - page number; - taxa (family and species); - locality indication; - land user; - specimen locality; kind of land use; - plant community; - date of collecting; researcher; - date of determination; researcher. Classifiers for the above indices have been found in order to arrange the herbarium data on magnetic carriers. When dealing with the geobotanic and floristic data, assessing ecological conditions for the area of growth of separate species of plants and plant communities, an automated library, based on the data available in the literature, on geographic, ecological and biological indices for vascular plants has been accumulated (LaiviņŠ 1986). This library, sequenced according to 'separate vascular plant species, incorporates the following data: 1. status of the species on the area of Latvia (native, adventive, introduced, cultivated, naturalized); 2. areal types according to Meusel (Meusel et al. 1965, 1978); 3. ecological and biological scales according to Ellenberg (1979) . The library is used to obtain precise numerical data on geography, ecological and biological indices for separate flora specimens or for geobotanic specification. The automated information system for biogeographical data banking (BETA) is designed so as to enable data accumulated in individual data bases to be applicable to make up at any moment simple map charts using alphanumerical printer. For this purpose the first three lines of each feature denomination file are occupied by supplementary features: the number in sequence and the values for vectors X and Y (Laiviņē et al. 1984). Map</page><page sequence="6">78 charting is based on the area of Latvia being divided into a grid of coordinated squares and rectangles. A square of * 10x10 km (UTM system) and a rectangle of 7.7x9.3 km are taken as the basis. Depending upon the purposes of the study, the grids may automatically be combined or subdivided thus yielding grids of different dimensions (Laiviņā 1983). The hardware for the information system comprises: ES type computer, OS ES operating system, PL/1 language, magnetic disks as information carriers. To control the data bases, special system programmes have been designed, and routines of the OS and ES operating systems are also used. References Ehrendorfer, F. 1973. Liste der Gefässpflan zen Mitteleuropas. 2è Auflage. Stuttgart . Ellenberg, H. 1979. Zeigerwerte der Geffässpflanzen Mitteleuropas. 2. Auflage. Scripta Geobotanica, Bd. 9., Göttingen. Kalniņa, A. and Laiviņē, M. 1983. Library of Data for Natural Reserves of Latvia. In "Vychislitelnye metody reshenya nauchnyh i technicheskyh problem lesgono khozyaistva" . Riga, Zinātne, p. 66-69. Laiviņ0, M. .1983. "Grid system for Biogeographic Stock-taking in Latvian SSR" . In "Okhrana flori rechnyh dolyn v Pribaltijskih respublikah" , Riga, Zinātne, p. 89-93. Laiviņē, M. 1986. Automated library for Geographical , Ecological and Biological Indices for Vascular Plant Species. In "Principi i metodi ekoinf ormate ii" , Moscow, p. 64-65. Laiviņā, M., Buës, H. and Birzvalka, I. 1984. Computerized Mapping of Phytogeographical Data. Botanicheskij zhurnal, 1114-1118. Laiviņš, M., Āboliņa, A., Piterāns, A., Rasiņs, A., Kalniņa, A., Zundāne, A. and Filipsons, J. 1986. "Classifiers for Vascular Plants, Briophytes and Lichens of Latvia". In "Problemi modelyrovanya i obrabotki informatsii v lesnom khozyaistve" . Riga, Zinātne, 67-77. Meusel, H., Jäger, E., Rauschert , S. and Weinert, E. 1965-1978. Vergleichende Chorologie der Zentraleuropäischen Flora . Jena, Fischer Verlag. Bd.l., Bd. 2. (Received January 28, 1988)</page></plain_text>