<plain_text><page sequence="1">759 tion from all known types of reptilian organization, and which could not have been predicated; namely, that this colossal reptile, which equalled in bulk the gigantic Edentata of South America, and like them was destined to obtain support from comminuted vegetable sub- stances, was also furnished with a large prehensile tongue and fleshy lips, to serve as instruments for seizing and cropping the foliage and branches of trees; while the arrangement of the teeth as in the ru- minants, and their internal structure, which resembles that of the molars of the Sloth tribe in the vascularity of the dentine, indicate adaptations for the same purpose. Among the physiological phaenomena revealed by Paleonto- logy, there is not a more remarkable one than this modification of the type of organization peculiar to the class of reptiles, to meet the conditions required by the economy of a lizard placed under similar physical relations, and destined to effect the same general purpose in the scheme of nature, as the colossal Edentata of former ages, and the large herbivorous mammalia of our own times. From the facts detailed, the author is led to consider the specimen described in his memoir of 1841, as being probably the lower jaw of a young Iguanodon (but the true nature of which, from the absence of the crowns of the teeth, was doubtful) belonging to the same family, but referable to a distinct genus or subgenus; and he proposes the name of Regnosaurus Northamptoni for that remarkable fossil saurian. The communication was illustrated by several drawings of the speci- mens described. "An Account of some Observations made on the Depth of Rain which falls in the same Localities at different altitudes in the hilly districts of Lancashire, Cheshire and Derbyshire." By S. C. Homer- sham, C.E. Communicated by George Newport, Esq., F.R.S. &amp;c. The author states, that having been present at a meeting of the Royal Society when a paper was read on the Meteorology of the Lake districts of Westmoreland and Cumberland, by J. Miller, Esq. of Kendal, in which it was stated that the quantity of rain falling in mountainous districts appears to increase from the valley upwards, to the altitude of about 2000 feet, and then rapidly to decrease, he wishes to lay before the Royal Society the results of his own obser- vations, which lead him to a different conclusion. After stating that he had been at some trouble to analyse Mr. Miller's observations which have been communicated to him by that gentleman, he is of opinion that they do not warrant the conclusion deduced from them, and are also at variance with the recorded observations of Daines Barrington, Dr. Dalton, Professor Daniell and others, as well as those of Capt. Lefroy and Col. Sabine. The author then shows from observations very carefully made in Lancashire, Cheshire and Derbyshire, from January 1846 to March 1848, that more rain falls at the bottom than at the tops of hills of a less elevation than 2000 feet in the same locality, and that the quantity diminishes in a ratio almost precisely corresponding to the height. The details are given in tables of monthly observations,</page><page sequence="2">760 made near Whaley and Congleton in Cheshire, and Chapel-en-le- frith in Derbyshire, and also of other observations made for the Cor- poration of Liverpool at Rivington and in the valley of Roddlesworth near Preston in Lancashire, which have been communicated to him. The whole of these observations, carefully analysed and compared, have led the author to a conclusion opposite to that arrived at by Mr. Miller. The author then proceeds to show that the details of Mr. Miller's own observations are in accordance with his, and that they fully bear out his views, and not those of that gentleman. Some apparent dis- crepancies in the results are pointed out and their cause explained by reference to peculiarities in the localities in which the observa- tions were made, as shown by reference to a map accompanying this paper, and to the details given by Mr. Miller; so that the observa- tions of this gentleman, when examined with reference to locality, fully confirm those of the author and of the authorities he has quoted, and establish the proposition, that as a general law, the quantity of rain deposited in the valleys and at the bottoms of hills is greater than in more elevated situations in the same locality. " Microscopical examination of the contents of the Hepatic Ducts." By Thomas Wharton Jones, Esq., F.R.S. On a microscopical examination of the matter contained in the larger hepatic ducts, the author has observed what he considers the debris of broken-up hepatic cells, in the form of free nuclei, a granu- lous substance, oil-globules and fragments of cell-walls; while in the matter contained in the smaller branches of the duct, entire cells of hepatic parenchyma may, in addition, be seen. These facts the author adduces as proofs that the cells of hepatic parenchyma are analogous to the endogenous cells, or true secretory corpuscles of the pancreas and other glands; and he infers that as the endogenous cells of other glands are constantly being reproduced, successively cast off, received into the radicles of the ducts (into which the con- taining vesicles or tubules of the former open), broken up and re- solved into the secreted matter, so the cells of hepatic parenchyma are received into the radicles of the hepatic duct as they are succes- sively cast off, and are there broken up and resolved into bile. This conclusion, namely, that the hepatic cells are analogous to the en- dogenous cells of other glands, as was first suggested by Professor Henle of Heidelberg, and not to glandular vesicles as has been as- sumed by some, the author considers as throwing light on the anatomical relation of the hepatic cells to the radicles of the hepatic ducts. "Researches on the Function of the Intercostal Muscles, and on the Respiratory Movements, with some remarks upon Muscular Power in Man." By Dr. John Hutchinson. Communicated by Sir Benjamin C. Brodie, Bart., F.R.S. This paper is an abridgement of a former one, bearing the same title, by the same author, which was read to the Society on the 17th</page></plain_text>