<plain_text><page sequence="1">920 mean to sidereal time, and which was set down and calculated on by Mr. Herschel in the paper drawn up by him, containing an account of the operation and the results deduced, on the authority of official communication with the Astronomer Royal. This error falls on the reduction of the single Greenwich observation of the 21st of July; and though partly compensated by an opposite error of three tenths of a second committed by Mr. Herschel himself in the reduction of that day's observations, is still sufficient to account for and correct the great and perplexing deviation of that day's results from those of the other three days in which only the signals proved successful. The effect of Mr. Henderson's correction is, therefore, to redeem the result of the observations of the 21st of July from the suspicion which attached to them ; to produce a change of one tenth of a second in the final result of the whole operation, giving 91n 21s"5 for the most probable difference of longitude between the two observato- ries; and, as Mr. Henderson observes, triples the value of the result obtained, by narrowing the extreme range of the experiments from OS-65 to 0S 21. After a minute re-calculation of the whole work, and the revision especially of the rates of the chronoineters, (by which that used at Fairlight appears to have kept a better rate than was at first supposed,) Mr. Henderson concludes his paper with the applica- tion of the doctrine of probabilities, to determine the weights of the several observations, and the probable error of the final result, which comes out 08s07, though the actual uncertainty, he thinks, may amount to Os-2. Some Observations on the Effects of dividing the Nerves of the Lungs, and subjecting the latter to the Influence of voltaic Electricity. By A. P. W. Philip, M.D. F.R.S. L. andE. Read May 10, 1827. [Phil. Trans. 1827, p. 297.] The author, in this paper, first recapitulates the results obtained by him in a paper published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1822; by which it appears that the secreted fluids of animals are so deranged, by dividing the nerves of the secreting organs, as to be in- capable of performing their functions; but that they may be restored to their former powers by transmitting voltaic electricity through the secreting organs by the portion of the divided nerves attached to them. In this paper, the functions of the stomach were chiefly con- sidered; in the present, he proposes to consider those of the lungs. When the nerves of the 8th pair, supplying the lungs, are divided, the animal breathes with difficulty, and speedily dies of suffocation. If the lungs be examined after death, their cells are found so com- pletely filled with a viscid fluid, as to obliterate them entirely, as well as the air tubes. They sink in water; and from a description by Mr. Cutler, which is stated by Dr. Philip at length, it appears that they are rendered impermeable to injections. The author then states, on his own testimony and that of various other gentlemen who have witnessed the fact, that if the due degree</page><page sequence="2">321 of voltaic electricity be transmitted through the lungs by those por- tions of the nerves which remain attached to them, no affection of the breathing supervenes, and the lungs after death are found quite healthy, unless the electricity has been applied of such power, or for so long a time, as to cause inflammation; in which case, the appear- ances on dissection are those of inflammation, and not those produced by mere division of the nerves. On the Effects produced upon the Air Cells of the Lungs when the Pulmonary Circulation is too much increased. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read May 31, 1827. [Phil. Trans. 1827, p. 301.] In examining the air cells of the lungs of a hare that had been coursed, the author found the superficial large cells filled with colour- less coagulable lymph, forming white specks, and the smaller, more interior ones filled with coagula of red blood. No such appearance was seen in the lungs of hares, snared or shot. A run of fifteen minutes with greyhounds so exhausts the hare, that it is frequently known to die from over exertion before the dogs are able to reach it. To examine the state of the lungs, in which the white specks were seen, they were injected with mercury through the bronchize, and then immersed in rectified spirits to prevent them from collap- sing, and in this state examined microscopically and drawn. by Mr. Bauer. The drawings accompany the paper. The white specks appear to be portions of coagulable lymph, sepa- rated from the circulating blood in consequence of its disturbed state, and the author considers them as giving great insight into the nature of that destructive disease called tubercles in the lungs; and in sup- port of this idea quotes Dr. Baillie's description, and refers to his plates of them in his Morbid Anatomy. Theory of the Diurnal Variation of the Magnetic Needle, illustrated by Experiments. By S. H. Christie, Esq. M.A. F.R.S. Read June 14 and June 21, 1827. [Phil. Trans. 1827, p. 308.] Mr. Christie having been led to doubt the validity of the expla- nation of the moving easterly variation adopted by Canton, but at the same time having observed that the changes in deviation and in- tensity appear always to have reference to the position of the sun with regard to the magnetic meridian, was led to connect these phenomena with Professor Seebeck's discovery of thermo-magnetism, and Professor Cumming's subsequent experiments; and to refer the phenomena of diurnal variation to the effect of partial heating, modi- fied, perhaps, by that of rotation, and by peculiar influence in the sun's rays. In support of this opinion, he cites passages from papers by Pro- fessor Cumming and Dr. Traill, whom a similar idea appears also to have impressed. But in place of looking to the stony strata, of which the earth's surface consists, as the elements of the thermo-magnetic VOL. II. Y</page></plain_text>