<plain_text><page sequence="1">ibstracta Botanica 12:79-88, 1988 © Departient of Plant Taxonoay and Ecology, 8LTS, Budapest On. ±ih.e nature of extracontinental mountain f oz-e8"ts ±n North Mongolia* I.A. Bannikova1 and N.N. Izmailova2 1 Severtsov Institute of Animal Evolutionary Morphology and Ecology, USSR Academy of Sciences, Moscow 2 Botanical Institute, USSR Academy of Sciences, Leningrad, USSR Abstract: Based on data from many-year investigations of mountain forests in the Khangai Upland (North Mongolia), the functioning of forest ecosystems under extreme environmental conditions (winter frosts and cryogenic soil moistening) is analyzed. We consider the physical nature of forest functioning as being determined by material and energy pathways between the community and the environment, as well as by the pattern of activity revealed by the ecosystem under actual conditions. The differences in the water regime of forest communities are discussed in a wide zonal aspect as they were observed along the longitudinal climatic gradient. It is suggested that under the conditions of extracontinental arid climate, the substantial increase of the activity and flexibility of physiological reactions in autotrophic organisms is mainly responsible for the functioning of ecosystems. As a result, energy consumption by the community accelerates and becomes more effective. This paper will present some results of the research made in the coniferous mountain forests of the Khangai Upland (North Mongolia) which partially compose the mountain Mongolian forest- steppe. After the classical papers of A.A. Yunatov published in the 1950's, the nature of the Kangai forest-steppe has been widely described in the last 15 years by Soviet, Polish, East German and Hungarian scientists. The belt of continental forest-steppe of Eurasia stretches along the 50th latitude from the mid-European and Cis-Carpathian forests of oak and hornbeam, as well as from south-Polish forests of linden-oak-hornbeam, to the coniferous-broad leaved forests of the Far East. This belt crosses areas which sharply differ in t Paper presented at the syipoaiui 'Structure and Function of Houotaio Forest ScoBjsteās' , September 22-24, 1987, Szentendre, Hungary</page><page sequence="2">80 climate. That is why within this belt there are several ecological - and - geographical types of forest-steppe wich replace one another from west to the east along the meridian climatic gradient ( Volyn-Podolsk forest-steppe with oak forests, the Moldavian-Ukranian forest-steppe with hornbeam-oak ecosystems, the Mid-Russian-Volga forest-steppe with ash groves, the Trans-Kama and Trans-Volga forest-steppe with linden groves and linden forests, the West Siberian forest-steppe with small- leaved forests; the island-like forest-steppe of South Siberia, Front Baikal Area, Trans-Baikal Area and North Mongolia with their pine and larch forests). The marginal types of forest- steppes occur in territories which drastically differ in climate: the temperate-continental and temperate-humid climate is in the East-European sector and the extracontinental climate is in the arid area influenced by the strongest winter anticyclone of Asia (the Mongolian sector). These differences are most vividily reflected in the thermal parameters of soils: as compared with the European sector, the total of negative soil temperatures is 23 times larger, the snow cover level is 6 times lower, the frozen depth of soil-grounds is 15 times higher. These differences are well-expressed in the index of earth continentality suggested by Revyakin. The index shows the total of negative air temperatures as related to the total of solid precipitation. In the European sector of the forest-steppe, this index equals 7, whereas in the Asian sector (the Khangai) it reaches 110. Such an extreme hydrothermal regime results in cryospheric processes occurring in soils of the extracontinental territories. These processes bring about a whole set of complicated phenomena and formations determining the ecological properties of soils in warm seasons, as well as the essential autonomity of soil climate. Owing to the powerful "cold-charge" received by the soil thickness in winter, it becomes thermally inert in the summer, due to which it is heated very slowly at rapidly increasing air temperatures. Of great ecological importance in this process Í6 the ice-frozen ground developing on the most humid ecotypes at the cost of the autumn reserves of moisture which appear as ice in winter. Because the frozen ground is melting out very 6lowly during the vegetation period, the</page><page sequence="3">81 soils can be stably replenished by cold moisture. The water supplies of soils prove to be the more stable and durable when precipitation in the first part of summer is the most scarce (affected by the warm atmospheric water, the frozen ground deiced rapidly and the soils get dehydrated) . The complicated mosaic of microclimates is conditioned upon the heterogeneous distribution of moisture and heat along different elements of relief and altitudinal mountain belts. Their contrasts are augmented by the autonomity of hydrothermal soil regimes and by high dynamics of water- and heat supplies recieved by the ecotopes during many- year cycles. The range of the microclimatic parameters of mountain habitats can be assessed by comparing their most contrasting types which are characteristic, on the one hand, of the southern convex slopes of the Khangai feet and, on the other hand, of the northern concave slopes of the upper belt. In this direction, we observe the total radiation to be decreasing by half, the annual total precipitation to be increasing 1.5 times, the total air temperatures for frost-free season to be decreasing from 2000°C to 900°C, the length of the vegetation period to be shortening from 165 to 70 days, the value of the radiation index of aridity diminishing from 2.8 to 0.6. The average moisture reserves in soils increase in the summer from 50 to 150 mm, the amplitudes of daily soil temperatures decrease from 45 to 5 °C; the depth of the 10 °C penetration in soil varies from that of 260 cm (the ice-frozen ground is practically absent) to that of 3 cm (the frozen ground is present till late July or early August). The mosaic and contrast structure of microclimates in the extracontinental mountains explains the peculiar type of the forest-steppe which uniquely combines various ecosystems, namely steppes and taiga, barren cryophilic meadows and frozen bogs, high-grass psychrophilic meadows and communities of mountain xerophytes . A great number of "intermediate" communities exist in between these contrasting types of ecosystems. As a result, the mountain forest-steppe is found to be a very complicated and internally diversified complex which is regulated by the hydrothermal structure of the mountains. Forests within this complex appear only in places where ice-frozen layers can develop. In the summer</page><page sequence="4">82 this layer provides the soil with cold water coming from the perched water table above the frozen ground. Such conditions occur on the shahed and half-shahed mountain slopes; they are most evident on the concave (circus-like) northern slopes in the upper mountain belts. The conditions of frozen-ground moistening in various habitats under forests greatly differ. Therefore, the sector of forest ecosystems becomes very long. Its initial link involves diversified types of young larch groves which develop in the steppes in spots where the ground is cryogeniccaly sagged. Its final link involves the cedar taiga with heavy green moss, it is mainly found the "bowl-shaped" slopes of the upper mountain belts. In fact, the entire complicated set of forest ecosystems is a spatially-expressed time cycle of the self-development of forest. This self-development proceeds as some sequential alternations of forest outliers by psychrophytic taiga, while the slopes become more concave and the cryogenic hydrophytization of habitats increases. The ecological range of forests in the Khangai mountains Í6 restriced by the following scope of physical parameters of habitats: the vegetation period lasts for 100 to 70 days; the total of active air temperatures varies from 1300 to 900°C; the total of annual precipitation is 380 to 480 mm; the evaporation is 430 to 310 mm; the radiation balance is 38 to 25 kcal/cm2 ; the radiation index of aridity is 0.5 to 0.9; the penetration depth of the 10°C temperature in soil is from 50 to 3 cm; the productive moisture reserves in soil constitute from 60 to 150 mm; the depth of soil frozening in winter is from 2.5 to 3.5 m; the frozen ground begins to outcrop from the soil sequence in mid- June till early August; the humus content is fulvatic/ humatic-fulvatic ; the water pH is 6.8 to 5.6; the soil saturation with bases is 92-70%. The types of forest ecosystems most widespread in the Khangai represent the monodominant larch subtaiga with rich and diversified grass layer. It is widely developed on northern slopes of the middle mountain belts and is related to relatively warm cryogenic habitats abundantly moistened by well-melting frozen-grounds. There is also the larch-cedar, green-moss and cowberry taiga with taiga grasses. It is widely developed in</page><page sequence="5">83 higher mountain belts and it is related to colder cryogenic habitats with poorer moisture supply (due to retarded melting- through of iced soils). These types of forest ecosystems are described in Table 1 with data on their structure, water regime, the efficiency of moisture use during photosynthesis, and productivity. For a better understanding of the biological and ecological processes in the forest ecosystems, it is very important to compare various aspects of their structural-functional organization in wide zonal terms. In particular, according to the analyses of productivity of forests in the forest-steppe and southern forest belts of Eurasia (Bazilevich et al. 1986, Tishkov, 1986), there are no essential differences between the values of productivity for the broad-leaved forests of the East European sector and the coniferous forests of the Asian sector. The main difference is found in the first case in the great divergence between the maximum and minimum values of production, while in the second case these prove to be less divergent. To some extent, this can be attributed to the greater stability of soil moistening observed in extracontinental regions where the hydrothermal regime in the summer happens to be less dependent on weather conditions during the vegetative periods. In this way the data of Table 2 are quite illustrative of some ecological and biological features of European and Asian forests. These data show that with the summer and annual precipitation decreasing from west to east, the reserves of soil moisture, the total water losses for transpiration, as well as the leaf mass in the communities of European and Asian forests are found to be close in many cases. The same is true of the production values pertaining to the vegetative period. It testifies to the fact that the factor restricting the productivity of forest ecosystems is not the initial inflow of resources but the structural- functional organization of the communities which determines their efficiency of energy use. In the extracontinental areas this organization is driven by such mechanisms which prevent any "depreciation" of solar energy due to the shortage of heat (related to the "physiological dryness" of cold 6oils).</page><page sequence="6">84 Table 1. Some structural and functional characteristics of the Khangai forests . Larch subtaiga with Cedar - larch taiga rich herb layer with cowberry and green mosses Dominant trees Larix sibirica Larix sibirica, Pinus sibirica Age of standing timber 30-140 years 200-250 years (L. s.) 160-200 years (P. s. ) Total crown closure 0.4-0.6 0.7 Number of canopy layers 3 3 Height of upper canopy 15-17 m 18-20 m Penetration depth of ^ 5 2 m 1-2 m tree roots Shrubs No separate layer No separate layer (Desiphora fruticosa, (Lonicera altaica, Rosa acicularis) Spiraea media) Cover 74 species. Dominance 37 species. Dominance of meadow-forest of taiga psychrophy tes , psychrophy tes , mainly herbs, mainly rhizoma- rhizomatous perennials tous perennials (60%). (46%). Moss cover not Cover of green mosses prominent. up to 60%. Litter thickness 0.5-1 cm 2-5 an Total phytomass 108 t/ha 264 t/ha Annual increment of 8.4 t/ha 7.1 t/ha phytomass (overground 6.3) (overground 5.5) Water loss for transpiration 295 ^ 225 ^ during vegetative period Total water loss (including water retained by canopy 400 inn 405 mm and tissues) Amount of water required ,rn 9 325 a y to yield 1 g dry matter ,rn 9 a y Yield of dry matter due to evaporation of 1 litre 2.8 g 3 g of water</page><page sequence="7">85 S i § ° ^ 03 0 •H 00 +5 Oî to ^ -H »H ^ » i ^ § ■$ n -h -g&lt;S •H SP •H »I SP *8 73 flj 73 flj § o rH (0 8 2 •H ,0 ST rH 1 co I ? s R m .î « Í5 5^ î 00 01 fN o o o _$ m n» « £2 ÌS 2ì ° ° CN Cn (M U3 _.jír.^r)rOT~ H *H n» 00 &lt;^&gt; «- m m H *H çn ' V» ' ' ' ^ ^ $ -H 9" &gt; £ 2) 2 ° ° 00 00 TT O o ^ 9 -H &gt; "3* f'J O CN (N T- r- -*T in 00 dü ininvocN cm in in m ^ &lt;8-5 a-», w S? aj E w - P M i - i •H U Q ■U $ r^^firo £ 2! . 3! ° ^ o o o ■U r^^firo . in ^ i vo m o g .3 - " _ ^ _ CO I 10 U) OSS i- I m O ^ -P 4J û) fO I ■ r- 00 O in CM ,- LO LO s •H 4J - î° ^ H M 4-) P •H -rH O a en ^ JQ ?, "íx ļ{ļr^Lnr^ cm ro r- cm in Ç ÜJ tJ1 fN ro c') m m m ,- lo m un (0-P' «iii . , . , , , ^ c Ö) o o o o o o o o o o w U) g~ O ro ro T ro m jjj o m lo o' o oo CN ro vo un g 3 y) i 3 Q) i - I T5 CO -H -M &gt;• &gt;i $ OJ W XCQ g . ,C ít rtíg J ļ s, tì-j £r g 1 o ¿ Č . * I rtiUSicíl«, ļ S ļjj s, S tì-j S Is £r ë S I in 5Í &gt;¡0 o S»? ¿ 0) Č ČOMČU0 * I H ^ M H ^ 3'í O II) ^ 3 ļjj C s -8 ^ &lt;2 S ;* ë S in 5Í &gt;¡0 0) ČOMČU0 M H ^ O II) ^ C -M ^ ;* H C/î S I À in po^^p &gt;¡0 aip jCflía&amp;wtnaíwSíQWíi) M H ^ O II) ^ C xS -M ^ H H P $ C/î 1 Iii m aip £ a) H 10 &lt;i&gt; m xS o) x: - _3 H w 0 § 1 Iii po,^ïiô,as7'ss,8 m 8f:'abâj3 £ a) H 10 8'aô84J0»,8-iss &lt;i&gt; m xS o) x: - _3 w 0 ^ns ¿s |!s |s.3 8f:'abâj3 "r ■" J 8'aô84J0»,8-iss ■"s« •StpÜ!!!.S!"H.SS,T! O »I 6 £ ļļ M ü NC ť Oļi ciHj £ c •StpÜ!!!.S!"H.SS,T! 8 -s 11 ll-Sifl le? O »I 6 £ 1Ï-S ļļ M ■3&amp;Í ü NC Pt, -s o w a j S S &amp; Ta žtpn3 3 o u u iä fe »3 &gt;~i e 3 'S ^ 3 "S fe IM rH IM rH o rd o (d - ^ t m i2 rd C S S &gt; ^ ^ 1/5 $ $ -HH -H C 2 118 S S &gt; 3 5 8 u $ u 8 $ «I &amp;&amp; &amp; 'fe 2 2 2 &amp;ļ 3 S u u $ S «I ss s 'fe s â S S 3 ä S ä S3 g3 $ 6 ií ss I s</page><page sequence="8">86 In this connection it is very interesting to study the data on the water regime of forest-trees in the temperate-continental and extracontinental regions (Beideman 1983). In Siberia the forest trees have two kinds of water strategy: they spend little water for their highly intensive transpiration (as cryoxerophytes under conditions of low cold moistening of soils); or they spend much moisture for their lower transpiration (a6 psychrophytes under conditions of abundant cold moistening of soils). In the European sector, the forest trees use either very little or very much water for their relatively low and more stable transpiration (as xerophytes under conditions of physical dryness of soils or as mesophytes under conditions of abundant "warm" soil moistening) . This tendency is more evident in forest herbs; in European forests they typically use large amounts of water for their relatively low intensity of transpiration. In Asian forests herbs use little water for their highly intensive transpiration. The greatest contrasts in the water regime are observed in the xerophytes of western and eastern steppes. The steppes are typically the most productive ecosystems of the temperate belt of Eurasia. We may consider it as the reflection of the most progressive adaptations of plants to the shortage of water there and, in the extracontinental regions, to the shortage of heat, too . It is noteworthy that the production in Asian boreal forests is similar to that of European forests although the vegetative period is much shorter. This explains the reduced water losses in the communities, and testifies to their more effective water use for the formation of organic matter. In this context it is interesting to examine the data on the biochemical parameters of the Pinaceae species. The Siberian larch ( Larix sibirica) has the longest growth time and is the most active metabolically , which explains the high intensity of its growth processes (Sudachkova 1977). At the northern boundary of forests in Siberia the cambial activity of roots in Siberian pine ( Pinus sibirica) and Siberian spruce ( Picea obovata) terminates when the soil temperature drops to 6-7 °C. For the Siberian larch (L. sibirica) thi6 temperature is 2-3 oc (Tyrtikov 1956).</page><page sequence="9">87 On the whole, the progress in coniferous trees is related by some authors to their special adaptive features, including the biochemical ones, which make them more resistant to the impact of most adverse factors. In the geological perspective (in the alternation of dry and humid, cold and warm periods, as well as during glaciations) the coniferous species elaborated their assimilation apparatus which is the most frost-resistant on Earth. In particular, the advance of the conifers is associated with the appearance of the resiniferous apparatus and a whole enzyme system responsible for biochemical protection (ac- cumulation of fats, resins, free carbohydrates). Such adaptive strategies are most prominent in the Pinus genus. An alternative adaptation of this type is seasonal exfoliation (which, in particular, is characteristic of Siberian larch). This feature is regarded as some secondary phenomenon evolved as an adaptation to cold or dry seasons (Takhtadjan 1964) . It is accepted that the Conifers have some regulatory systems repsonsible for the compensatory shifts in their metabolism in response to the suppressive impact of the restricting factors. An important process in this mechanism is the regulated synthesis of protein (Sudachkova 1977). In this way, the spatial (longitudinal) succession of the typological structure of forest vegetation is an external reflection of alternations in the adaptive mechanisms of communities which are finally aimed at maintaining energetics optimal for the forest type of cover when the ecological conditions undergo deep spatial changes. It seems likely that on extracontinental territories one observes the most progressive of these mechanisms permitting the forest to live under extreme conditions . References Bazilevich, N.I., Grebenshchikov O.S., Tishkov A.A. 1986. Geographic regularities in the structure and functioning of ecosystems. .Moscow, Nauka (in Russian). Beideman, I.N. 1983a. Directory on the water losses by plants in the natural zones of the USSR. Novosibirsk, Nauka (in Russian) Beideman, I.N. 1983b. Mountain forest-steppe of East Khangai. Moscow, Nauka (in Ru66ian) .</page><page sequence="10">88 Sudachkova , N.Ye. 1977. Metabolism in the conifers and formation of wood. Novosibirsk, Nauka (in Russian). Takhtadjyan, A.L. 1964. Fundamentals of evolutionary morphology in Angiospermae . Moscow-Leningrad (in Russian). Takhtadjyan, A.L. 1964. The system and phylogeny in anthophytes. Moscow- Leningrad (in Russian). Tyrtikov, A. P. 1956. Activity of cambium in the roots and stems of trees at the northern limit of forests. Bull.MOIP, Otd. biol. 5 (in Russian) . (Received January 15, 1988)</page></plain_text>