<plain_text><page sequence="1">661 On the whole, the author arrives at the conclusion thlat the phe- nomena noticed in this paper are altogether molecular, and that they establish the following principles: first, that the passage of the elec- tric current modifies, even in solid bodies, the arrangement of the particles; and secondly, that the action of magnetism, in like man- ner, produces an analogous modification in the molecular constitu- tion of all bodies. This has already been demonstrated by Faraday in the case of transparent bodies, in its effects on polarized light; and is now extended by M. De la Rive to opaque conducting bodies, by employing, instead of polarized light, a discontinuous electric current. " On the Ganglia and Nerves of the Virgin Uterus." By Robert Lee, M.D., F.R.S., &amp;c. The author states that his recent dissections have enabled him to verify the descriptions he gave of the ganglia and nerves of the uterus in his papers already published in the Philosophical Trans- actions, and also to detect the existence of ganglia situated in the muscular coat of the uterus, and of plexuses of nerves accompanying all the blood-vessels and absorbents ramifying in its walls, between the peritoneum and lninig membrane. By examining the hearts of a foetus, of a child of six years of age, of an adult in the sound state, a human heart greatly hypertrophied, and the heart of an ox, he found that there exists a striking analogy between the ganglia and nerves of the uterus and those of the heart. Ie ascertained by microscopic observation that the lmuscular and vascular structures of the auricles and ventricles are endowed with numerous ganglia and plexuses of nerves, which, as far as he knows, have not yet been described, and which enlarge simultaneously with the natural growth of the heart, and also continue to enlarge during its morbid condi- tions of hypertrophy. The author also finds that the size of the ganglia and nerves of the left auricle and ventricle, in the normal state, is more than double that of the corresponding parts on the right side. A description is then given of two elaborate drawings which accompany the paper. " On a new and practical form of Voltaic Battery of the highest powers, in which Potassium forms the positive element." By John Goodman, Esq. Communicated by S. Hunter Christie, Esq., A.M., Sec. R.S. The author succeeded in constructing a voltaic arrangement of some power by fixing a piece of potassium to the end of a copper wire, placed in a tube containing naphtha, and bringing it in con- tact with a small quantity of mercury, held by a layer of bladder closing the lower end of the tube, which was itself immersed in acidulated water immediately over a piece of platinum, and then completing ,the circuit by establishing a metallic contact between the copper wire and the platinum. This battery acted with energy on the galvanometer, and effected the decomposition of water. A series of twelve pairs of similar plates exhibited a sensible attraction</page></plain_text>