<plain_text><page sequence="1">AVIAN TECH TIMES x j yvb/rirst Avian Technicians' Vol. 1 /CY Meetin9 Held / Fifty persons, including Dean Axelson, iv t /^y current AAV President and a number of other |\] / &lt;&amp;s veterinarians attended the first general meet Jl ^Io?2/ ^sr/ ing of the Association of Avian Technicians (AAT) held on June 4, 1985 in Boulder, Colorado. / Although some technicians were unable to personally /\ / attend, over 100 individuals expressed interest in y&gt;^b/ the formation of the organization by returning the form / enclosed in the Registration packet. /\ /An informal business meeting was led by Loni McEntee, AHT, (/jO//and some preliminary decisions were made by the group. y 1. The tentative title of the organization will be Associa Xtion of Avian Technicians. Other titles may be submitted and voted on by the membership. 2. The primary goal of the organization is to enhance the knowledge of animal health technicians in support of avian prac titioners. 3. A technician can participate by joining the Association of Avian Veterinarians (AAV) as an Associate Member. This will entitle him/her to all Associate Member benefits as well as correspondence directed specifically to technicians. The Avian Tech Times is the official communication of the organization and will include practice tips directly relating to avian techni cians, announcements of continuing education programs in this field and notification of employment opportunities in avian oriented practices. 4. In order to develop a Constitution for AAT, the consti tution of the Association of Zoo Veterinary Technicians will be reviewed and used as a model. 5. Shawn Gamroth of Elmbrook Veterinary Clinic in Waukesha, WI will create a logo for AAT which will be approved by a vote. Here's how YOU can participate and make a difference with the ASSOCIATION OF AVIAN TECHNICIANS: Join the group. Spread the word. Let people know who we are and what we have to offer. Be willing to share your ideas and information through the Avian Tech Times. Mail or call in items to the AAV Newsletter Office (5770 Lake Worth Road, Lake Worth, FL 33463 305-439-2421). Send in questions you would like to see answered in future issues. Send in the survey form enclosed with this Newsletter. Plan to attend the First AAV Avian Technicians1 Annual Meeting in June, 1986 in Miami. If you have any suggestions, comments or ideas on any aspect of this enthusiastic group, contact: Loni McEntee, AHT, 6114 Greenback Lane, Citrus Heights, CA 95621. -- Loni McEntee, AHT 47</page><page sequence="2">ATT 10 . . TIPS OS CHANGING A BIRD'S DIET Because many pet bird owners lack the patience, persistence, com mitment, or otherwise have a diffi cult time changing their bird's diet, we are occasionally asked to hospi talize a bird solely for this pur pose. We have not failed to change the diet within a week's time and usually accomplish it in 4 days. For the first half day after the owner has left, the bird is put in a cage with nothing but familiar seeds (and water). It may take some time for the bird to feel comfortable in the new surroundings so nothing is done until the bird is beginning to crack seeds. A finely chopped vegetable/ fruit/supplement nix is prepared from apples, carrots, spinach (or brocco li), oranges, monkey biscuit, pound cake and shredded cheese. This is first sprinkled ever, then mixed in with the seeds in the following pro portions: Day 1 - 90% seeds; 10% mix Day 2 - 70% seeds; 30% mix Day 3 - 35% seeds; 65% mix Day 4 - Small handful of seeds sprinkled over supplement mix Day 5 -Count out 10 seeds; place over cup of mix Day 6 - Place 3 seeds on top of vegetable mix Day 7 - Feed cup of vegetable/ fruit/suppl ement only The bird doesn't readily accept the vegetables but learns to asso ciate these new foods with the seeds. The owner is instructed to continue offering these foods; seeds can be added back in limited portions. I believe one key to the success of this simple prpgram is the fact that the bird is away from its owner. An important aspect is- a daily weighing of the bird so we can get an accurate assessment of what the bird is actu ally eating. Another technique that works to entice a bird to try a new food is to press small seeds around the sides of a softened monkey biscuit. Mary Partello lake Worth. FL ATT 11 . . ABSOLUTE vs. ESTIMATED WBC COUNTS Absolute WBC counts are much preferred to Estimated WBC counts for reducing the margin for error and increasing the usefulness of the test in monitoring mild changes. For a period of time I obtained WBC counts from the Eosinophil Stain technique and sent identical blood samples to a veterinary laboratory which deter mined an Estimated WBC as part of their "Avian Panel". In comparing results from approximately 100 birds, the WBC Estimate was found to be inaccurate in approximately 50% of the leukocytic birds tested. Example 1. African Grey Absolute WBC Count: 60,000 Estimated WBC: "Normal". Example 2. Yellow-naped Amazon Absolute WBC Count: 22,000 Estimated WBC: "Normal" Although the first example is unusually extreme, it illustrates the wide variation that can occur with Estimated WBC counts. The Eosinophil stain technique is rapid, relatively simple to do, and the results are much more reli able . --David McCluggage, DVM Brighton, CO u ATT 12 . . USE OF COMMERCIAL KIT FOR GRAM'S STAINS We have found the disposable staining system called Neat Stain (Accra Lab 1-800-524-029*) to be very convenient in producing high quality Gram's stains without the usual mess. The sample slide is dipped into a four step staining container and the container is discarded after use. The five test unit costs $2 ($.-0 per test slide); the twenty-five test unit costs $5 ($.20 per test slide). The company also has a hematology stain unit, acid fast unit and trichrome sta;n unit for parasitology. -- Sheldon Gerstenfeld, VMD ATT 13 . . CONSERVATION OF ANESTHESIA Philadelphia, PA To avoid loss of anesthetic liquid (especially isoflurane) in the vapori zer container by 'inadvertantly leaving the machine turned on after the surgery is complete, the container can be filled with only the amount one would use during the procedure. More can be added. -- Rhonda Sayle, AHT Lake Worth, FL 48</page><page sequence="3">ATT 14 . . FORMULATION OF AN AVIAN RADIOGRAPHIC TECHNIQUE CHART (From 1985 AAV Proceedings - Boulder, CO) Although it is tempting to fol low a "cookbook" format for develop ing a radiographic technique for your equipment and film, it is necessary to experiment with exposure factors to formulate your own technique chart. This is due to differences in X-ray machine output and developing techniques. These differences are inherent in all systems. It is rec ommended that a cockatiel-sized bird is used to formulate the technique chart. The bird is restrained in left lateral recumbency with tape on a radiolucent sheet of plastic or on a restraint device. Ideally the bird should be sedated to minimize patient motion but this is not absolutely necessary. Using previous experience with exposure factors or beginning with factors for a 1 cm base tech nique, a series of radiographs is made using different settings. The first step is to determine the best MA and time settings to produce good background density. It may be necessary to vary the Focal Film Distance. After the MA, expo sure time, and Focal Film Distance settings are determined, the KVP is varied to produce the best image detail. The following is an example of the procedure: Film: Kodak TMG Screen: Kodak Lanex Fine (2 Screens) Exposure for 1 cm extremity: MA SEC KVP FFD (inches) Exposure 1 100 1/60 42 36 Exposure 2 300 1/60 42 36 Exposure 3 500 1/60 42 36 Exposure # 1 was too light. The background was grey, the patient white. Exposure # 3 was very dark. Exposure # 2 was best but the background was still too grey. Three more exposures are made. MA Sec. KVP FFD (inches) Exposure 4 300 1/60 42 34 Exposure 5 300 1/60 42 32 Exposure 6 300 1/60 42 28 Exposure 4 was still too grey, # 6 was too dark and # 5 was best, but the internal structures of the bird were too light (underpenetrated). Three more exposures are made. MA SEC. KVP FFD (inches) Exposure 7 100 1/60 42 32 Exposure 8 100 1/60 48 32 Exposure 9 100 1/60 54 32 Exposure # 9 was overexposed and # 7 was underexposed. Exposure - 8 was selected as the "typical cockatiel exposure". Extrapolated KVP settings were estimated for the other species of birds. As with any technique chart, appropriate adjustments must be made for the individual variations of the patient. Obesity is the most common condition which dictates altered rad iographic techiques. An average par akeet may weigh 30 gms. and an obese parakeet may weigh 65 gms. To com pensate for this we can use the tech nique formulated for a large bird or an intermediate setting. It is best to alter the KVP rather than the Focal Film Distance. Decreasing the FFD will magnify the image and it may decrease image sharpness if the FFD is excessively decreased. Sam Silverman, DVM San Francisco, CA 49</page><page sequence="4">ENCORE PRESENTATION OF SELECTED I.M.E.'S OF INTEREST TO TECHNICIANS ATT 15 . . PREPARATION OF IMPRESSION SMEARS FOR DIAGNOSTIC CYTOLOGY (From March, 1982 AAV Newsletter) Many tissue impression smears submitted to our laboratory are of no diagnostic value because they are essentially smears of blood expressed from the tissue and contain few, if any, cells of the tissue of interest. A thin (1.0 to 2.0 mm) slice of tis sue should be firmly and repeatedly blotted and partially crushed on a AVIAN TECHNICIANS" CONTINUING EDUCATION MEETINGS SEPTEMBER A program for Veterinary Techni cians on hospital care and treatment techniques for Avian, Reptile, and Small Exotic Mammals will be presen ted by George V. Kollias, Jr., DVM, PhD during the Florida Veterinary Medical Annual Convention September 13-15, 1985 at the Hyatt Regency in Tampa, Florida. For further information contact H. Larry Gore, FVMA, 7131 Lake Elle nor Drive, Orlando, FL 32809. (305) 851-3862. OCTOBER The Fifth Annual Convention of the Association of Zoo Veterinary Technicians will be held on Sunday, October 6 at the Scottsdale Hilton in Scottsdale, Arizona. Avian Medicine and Laboratory Procedures will be discussed. Avian technicians inter ested in attending are invited to contact Gail Watts, Brookfield Zoo, 3300 Golf Road, Brookfield, IL 60513 by August 23, 1985. NOVEMBER American Animal Hospital Asso ciation (AAHA) Northeast Region Meet ing is planned for November 7-10, 1985 in Phildelphia, PA. The pro gram for Animal Health Technicians is "Avian and Exotic Animal Handling". For more information contact AAHA, P.O. Box 768, Mishawaka, IN 46544. dry paper towel until little or no blood can be expressed from either cut surface. The tissue is then pressed on the glass slide and 1ifted off wi thout smeari ng. The tissue can then Be smeared on the same slide next to the impressions. When making tissue impressions and smears, prepare several duplicate slides so that several different stains can be used. Wright's, Giem sa, Gimenez, Gram's and Hemtoxylin and Eosin stains all have their par ticular purposes and indications for use with cytological impressions and smears. Smears which are intended for fluorescent antibody tests must be fixed immediately in cold acetone for five minutes, stored in a free zer, and must be kept frozen during shipment to the laboratory. It may be difficult to prepare adequate impressions and smears of degenerating and necrotic liver tis sue from suspected cases of parrot, pigeon, or falcon herpesvirus infec tion. Improved cell adherence to the slide and less nuclear distortion is provided through the use of slides which are frosted on one side. Fros ted slides should not be used for impressions and smears in which chla mydia, bacteria and protozoa are sought, nor for fluorescent antibody stai ni ng. -- David L. Graham, DVM, PhD Cornell University AAT 16 . . CAGE CLEANING TIP ' We spray a light coat of PamR ! vegetable cooking spray on wire cages prior to use, so food debris and stool can be easily cleaned off prior to disinfecting. -- Rhonda Sayle, AHT Lake Worth, FL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITIES FOR AVIAN TECHNICIANS Dr. William Olkowski Thomas B. Angel, DVM Veterinary Care Clinic 7640 Burlington Pike 3601 Eubank NE Florence, KY 41042 Albuquerque, NM 87109 (606)371-4929 (505) 292-5353 (AHT willing to relocate (AHT skilled in hematology) to metropolitan Cincinnati) 50</page></plain_text>