<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 9, Suppl. 2:1-9, 1985 SOME ASPECTS OF BRYOLOGICAL DOCUMENTATION Stanley W. GREENE Department of Botany, University of Reading, London Road, Reading RG1 5AQ, Berkshire, Great Britain In the field of specimen retrieval the usefulness of some recent works is evaluated. The fiche method of publishing data about the algological * collect ions in the British Museum (Natural History) is described and its potential usefulness in bryology considered. Some comments are also made on a possible new approach to the production of a type register for bryophytes. While summarizing progress with the preparation of the Con.0pe.ctu0 oļL (L/iyo¿ogic.a¿ taxonomie j¿¿te./iatu/ie. it is pointed out that a whole level of literature dealing with local distribution and site records within countries is hardly being touched. Progress with the Bryohistorical Project, established in collaboration with the British Bryological Society (BBS) to assess such literature and bryophyte collections within the British Isles and Ireland, is briefly described. INTRODUCTION In a paper in the Commemorative or ī e.ótóch/i¿£t volume for Geneva Sayre's 70th birthday in 1981 (Greene 1981), I reviewed a range of works available to the bryological taxonomist. Although some aspects of that paper now need updating, the broad coverage of the subject remains adequate. I pointed out that there were many "gaps" in the range of retrieval aids available, and suggested that "some of these gaps undoubtedly exist because many bryologists prefer to work with plants rather than provide reference documents". I went on to say "some bryologists would be perfectly happy for information scientists, librarians and others working in the field of documentation and data retrieval to provide the sort of indices they require. If this is to happen they need to state clearly what they want."</page><page sequence="2">2 This paper looks at some aspects of bryological documentation and will, I hope, stimulate some thought and discussion about what could be useful. SPECIMEN RETRIEVAL One area where there have been some new developments is in the field of specimen retrieval. Most people are familiar with Iwatsuki, Vitt and Gradstein's (1976) publication entitled Biyotogicaí, heidaiia, A guide, to the Hiyo¿ogica¿ heiüaiia of the do lid. It is arranged in the same way as Holmgren, Keuken and Schofield's (1981) Index. hei&amp;aiioium, Paît 1, lhe heitaiia of. the u)Oi¿d / ¿d. 7, a comprehensive covering all groups of plants. Biyo£ogica¿ heiíLaiia has just been superceded by Vitt, Gradstein and Iwatsuki1 s (1985) Compendiam of. Hi yotogy. A u)oi¿d ¿iòting of heiLaiia, c.o¿¿ec.toió , Hiyotogiòtò and cuiient leòeaich . The Compendiam combines the data in Biyo ¿ogic.a¿ heiHaiia and those in the din.ec.toiy of diyotogiòt* and HiyoJLogic.a¿ ie¿eaich, a work published earlier by Gradstein (1979) which lists researchers and research projects worldwide. The importance of the new work, as an aid in specimen retrieval, is that the location of material of an estimated 2.250 collectors in ca. 400 institutional herbaria, and a further 59 personally-owned herbaria, is documented. A major improvement on the 1976 work is the provision of an index, making this the largest single list, so far published, of collectors of bryophytes. But what is still not available is a reference aid to answer the question "What material exists from country A or B?" Nor do we have a list of the location of type specimens, even of those in major herbaria. An interesting approach to this problem of locating specimens is being made in the marine algology section of the British Museum (Natural History). I am indebted to Mr. S. Honey for the following information. The museum's marine algal collections are estimated to number some 250,000 specimens, and</page><page sequence="3">3 two things are being recorded for each species: the full collecting details of all types in the collections and the names of the countries from which material is available. These data are then entered into a micro-computer which generates print-outs listing, for example, for each country, a list of the species in the collections, or for each species a list of the countries in which it occurs. Types are listed by species, authors, or collectors. So, if someone visiting the museum asks to see material of all species from country A, the lists are consulted and the machine can quickly provide an up-date of material added since the last list was prepared. Thus, the two commonest questions "What material have you from country A", or, "Have you the type of species B?" can be answered quickly. The advantage to the staff is that it makes it easier to deal with queries, while for the visitor a lot of time previously spent searching fruitlessly in cabinets can be saved. It also reduces "wear and tear" on the specimens, since they are only consulted when there are clear indications that desired specimens are present . You may say other museums are doing similar things, so why is this noteworthy? Well, the fact that copies of the printouts are available for purchase in fiche form, thus making the data widely and cheaply available, is, I think, a particularly interesting development. So far as I am aware such a step has not been taken by any museum or institution that has computerized data on its bryophyte collections. THE NEED FOR TYPE REGISTERS At the IAB Workshop in Geneva, Koponen (1982) gave a paper on the need for a type specimen register for bryophytes and concluded that three different kinds of registers were possible: (i) A register or catalogue of types in a certain herbarium, e.g., Poe s ( 1977) 7ype. cata¿ogue. of the. H/iyo phyte. he./i(La/i±u.m of H.o S&lt;¿ ñ¿nh 7 e.ache./i¿' Co¿¿e.ge. ¿rt ¿ ge./i . (ii) An international computer-based register: none exists as far as I am aware.</page><page sequence="4">4 (iii) A register of the types of the taxa which have already been lec tot ypif ied ; again, none exists. He might have added a fourth category, that of types in herbaria of a particular country, such as has been provided by Hattori and Noguchi (1960) for Japan. So far, an international, computer-based, register of types does not exist for any group of plants. But using the approach I outlined recently in the B/iyo¿og¿ca¿ 7 ¿meó (Greene 1984a), of incorporation of protologue data onto a computer file, and adding details of herbaria, etc., as types are located, i.e. starting from the literature rather than the specimens, it should be possible to start the production of such a register for mosses, based on the Inde. x muòcoium data base in the Missouri computer. The incorporation of data on the category of types, lectotypif icat ion , etc., would enable a register of lectotypes to become available at the same time. By publishing the print-outs on fiche, they could become widely available quite cheaply. LITERATURE RETRIEVAL Everyone, I feel sure, is familiar with the two best known bryological retrieval works, the Index maòco/iam and the Inde. x he.pat¿ca/Lum . The Index. muAco/ium is complete in five volumes up to the end of 1962, but Index hepatica/ium has only reached the genus fl yt±¿of)ó¿ó* Its cut-off date is the end of 1973. An 11-year supplement to Index muòco/ium (i.e., for the period 1 January 1963 to 31 December 1973) has been announced (Gradstein 1981), and its preparation is in the hands of M. R. Crosby of Missouri. From 1973 onwards, 2-year supplements of new taxa and new combinations of both mosses and hepatics are being published in laxon, the latest moss list being by Crosby and Bauer (1983) and the latest hepatic list by Engel (1984). Two other recent works may also be mentioned. Crosby and Magill (1977) published A d¿ct±ona/iy of. mo¿óe¿, and sub-titled it "An alphabetical listing of genera indicating familial disposition, nomenclatural and taxonomie synonomy, together with a systematic arrangement of the families of mosses and a</page><page sequence="5">5 catalogue of family names used for mosses". In spite of the lengthy sub-title it is simply an alphabetical list of names showing the family to which each genus belongs. The corresponding work for hepatics, by Grolle (1983), was published under the title Nomina generica äe.paticaiuiü; /ie.f.e./ienc.e.ò , type.* and òynonomieò . Although still alphabetically arranged, it is a more sophisticated work, since it includes details of publication of names, including the lee tot y pif icat ion reference, as appropriate. A taxonomie arrangement is also presented . What neither of these lists provide, nor Walther's (1983) treatment of the Laubmoose in Englerfs SyllafLuò de.i P1.¿anze.n£ami¿ie.n, are definitions of the genera for bryophytes - a more convenient "working unit" than the family concept, used by phanerogamist s . Definitions in English for categories above generic level will be found in Parker (ed.) (1982) Synoptik and Ctaòòification of. Living O/iganiòmò , Vo¿, 1 &amp; 2, For the Division Bryophyta, Engel has provided the descriptions of families in the He. pático pò ida and the Antkoce/ioto pòida; Vitt has done the same for the S phagno pòida, and the B/iyo pòida, and Murray for the And/Le.ae.ao pò ida . It is my strong belief that when descriptions of genera are combined with descriptions of families, and both are treated in a uniform format, in the English language, in what could be considered as a Conòpectuò fami¿ia/ium gene/iumque H/iyo phytoium, bryologists will have an exceedingly valuable reference work which should accelerate the preparation of inventories, etc. This is a document that must be prepared by specialists and cannot be left to the information scientists or other non- bryologists. I believe the preparation of such a work could well be sponsored by IAB.</page><page sequence="6">6 CONSPECTUS OF BRYOLOGICAL TAXONOMIC LITERATURE Work on this retrieval aid has been well publicized in a number of recent papers (Greene 1981, 1982, 1984b) and so need not be repeated here. Suffice it to say that its objectives are to provide on a worldwide scale a comprehensive introduction to that part of the literature on botany which deals with bryophytes. Plans have altered somewhat as the work has proceeded and the final volume, when it appears, will have its data arranged in two alphabetical series, one a systematic index and the other a geographical guide. It will include references to pertinent literature published since 1983, the year the first volume appeared in die. natu/i¿¿che.n ?f.¿anze.n.f.am¿¿¿e.n. The closing date will be the end of 1986. BBS BR YOH I STORI CAL PROJECT In spite of the detailed extracting that has been undertaken while preparing the Con¿pe.ctu.¿, it has become apparent that there is a whole layer of taxonomie and floristic literature which has barely been touched and which will remain inadequately documented without a special effort. I refer to papers published in local natural history society journals and other works of limited circulation, mostly within a country, what might be called the "local" or "intranational" as distinct from national or international literature. The international literature often becomes important at the international level when, for example, the first record of an interesting species in a country was published in a work of limited circulation. Then the question arises, "Who is the author?" "What else did he or she write?" "Where are the . specimens deposited?" - questions that often frustrate a monographer or phy t ogeographer who is trying to locate a specimen to substantiate a record published by a little-known author . To see what sort of problems were involved in tracking down intranational collections and literature, I launched the BBS</page><page sequence="7">7 Br yohistor ical Project, in collaboration with Mr, L. T. Ellis, a colleague of Dr. Harrington's, at the British Museum (Natural History) (Ellis and Greene 1984). Our immediate aims are: (i) to prepare and publish an alphabetical index of the names and dates of all who have collected or published on British or Irish bryophytes; and (ii) to give sources for every entry. A more long-term aim is to provide biographical information about each collector, details on the whereabouts of their herbaria, and a bibliography of works on British and Irish bryophytes . Members of the British Bryological Society have been working with us and progress is being made on three broad fronts (Greene 1985) . (i) The collectors index now contains the names of more than 700 individuals, (ii) Data are accumulating for the bibliography, (iii) Files of biographical data - the - have been started for every person in the collectors index. For some countries literature documentation is very much better than in others. For example, for Hungary there existí. Boros' (1944) list - BlfLliogiapkia fLiyologic.a H.u.nga/i¿ca, but so far as I know there is no publication that covers the period 1945 onwards. There is no comparable publication for the British Isles. I am convinced that there is a need to document fully intranational bryological literature, and it can only be done effectively by people working on their national bryofloras. So I hope others will start br yohistor ical projects and provide publications that will merit inclusion in a successor to the Con.0pe.ctu0 .</page><page sequence="8">8 ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS It is a pleasure to thank Mr. S. Honey for information on the British Museum (Natural History) marine algological section, and Dr. A, J. Harrington of the Museum's bryophyte section for helpful comments on this manuscript. REFERENCES Boros, X. 1944. Magyarorszãg moháira vonatkozô irodalom, Bibliographia bryologia Hungarica. Fontes Florae Hungaricae (A Magyar Flóra For rásmüvei ) . II, 1-74 Crosby, M. R. and C. R. Bauer. 1983. Index muscorum supplementum : 1980-1981. Taxon 32:670-691 Crosby, M. R. and R. E. Magill. 1977. A dictionary of mosses. An alphabetical listing of genera indicating familial dispostion, nomenclatural and taxonomie synonymy, together with a systematic arrangement of the families of mosses and a catalogue of family names used for mosses. Missouri Botanical Garden, St. Louis. 43 pp. Ellis, L. T. and S. W. Greene. 1984. The builders of British and Irish bryology: a br yohistor ical project. Bull. Brit. Bryol. Soc. 43:29-32 Engel, J. J. 1982. Hepa t icopsida and Anthoceropsida . In: S. P. Parker (ed.): Synopsis and Classification of Living Organisms, Vol. I., McGraw-Hill, New York. pp. 271-305. Engel, J. J. 1984. Index hepaticarum supplementum: 1978-1979. Taxon 33:761-779 Gradstein, S. R. 1979. Directory of bryologists and bryological research. Ed. 2. Regnum Veg. 99:1-81 Gradstein, S. R. 1981. The IAB business meeting, Sydney, 24th August, 1981. Bryol. Times 12:3-4 Greene, S. W. 1981. Retrieval works useful to the bryological taxonomist. Occas. Paps. Farlow Herb. 16:83-99 Greene, S. W. 1982. The conspectus of bryological taxonomie literature, In: P. Geissler and S. W. Greene (eds): Bryophyte Taxonomy, Methods, Practices and Floristic Exploration. Proceedings of the International Association of Bryologists taxonomie workshop meeting, Geneve, 27 Aug. - 2 Sept. 1979. Beiheft Nova Hedwigia 71:173-176 Greene, S. W. 1984a. A new approach to the production of type registers. Bryol. Times 27:8 Greene, S. W. 1984b. Bryological bibliographic data bases. Journ. Hattori Bot. Lab. 55:321-325</page><page sequence="9">9 Greene, S. W. 1985. Bry ohistorical project: progress report 1984/85. Bull. Brit. Bryol. Soc. 46:29 Grolle, R. 1983. Nomina generica Hepa t icar um : references, types and synonymies. Acta Bot. Fennica 121:1-62 Hattori, S. and A. Noguchi. 1960. Index speciminium typicorum in herbariis Japonensi bus . Pars Bryophyta. Japan Society for the Promotion of Science, Tokyo. 169 pp. Holmgren, P. K., W. Keuken and E. K. Schofield. 1981. Index herbariorum. Part 1. The herbaria of the world. Regnum Veg. 106:1-452 Iwatsuki, Z., D. H. Vitt and S. R. Gradstein. 1976. Bryological herbaria. A guide to the bryological herbaria of the world. Bryophytorum Bibliotheca 8:1-44 Koponen, T. 1982. On a type specimen register of bryophytes. In: P. Geissler and S. W. Greene (eds): Bryophyte Taxonomy, Methods, Practices and Floristic Exploration. Proceedings of the International Association of Bryologists taxonomie workshop meeting, Geneve, 27 Aug. - 2 Sept. 1979. Beiheft Nova Hedwigia 711:179-185 Murray, B. 1982. Andr eaeopsida . In: S. R. Parker (ed.): Synopsis and Classification of Living Organisms. Vol. I. McGraw-Hill, pp. 305-306 Pões, T. 1977. Type catalogue of the bryophyte herbarium of Ho Si Minh Teachers' College, Eger, Hungary. Fol. Hist. Nat. Mus. Matr. 4:15-36 Vitt, D. H. 1982. Sphagnopsida , Bryopsida. In: S. R. Parker (ed.): Synopsis and Classification of Living Organisms. Vol. 1., McGraw-Hill, New York. pp. 305, 307-336 Vitt, D. H., S. R. Gradstein and Z. Iwatsuki. 1985. Compendium of bryology. A world listing of herbaria, collectors, bryologists and current research. Bryophyt. Bibl. 30:1-355 Walther, K.1983. Bryophytina Laubmoose. In: J. Gerloff and Poelt (eds): A. Engler. Syllabus der Pflanzenfamilien. 13. Auflage. Gebrüder Borntraeger, Berlin, Stuttgart, pp. 1-108</page></plain_text>