<plain_text><page sequence="1">SELF ASSESSMENT TEST By David M. McCluggage, DVM The following questions were developed from material presented in the 1988 Proceedings of the Annual Meeting of the Association of Avian Veterinarians, Houston. 1. Which of the following statements is true concerning radiographic evidence of pathological fractures? a. Pathological fractures accompanied by reduced bone density in some areas and sclerosis in other areas would be typical of metabolic bone disease. b. Pathological fractures accompanied by evidence of osteolysis or discrete opacities of the marrow cavity would indicate an infectious condition. c. Pathological fractures accompanied by evidence of sclerosis would be typical of metabolic bone disease. d. Pathological fractures accompanied by evidence of sclerosis would be typical of infectious conditions. 2. In one European study, a commercially available ELISA test was found to be superior to a complement fixation (CF) test in the detection of chlamydial antibodies. The ELISA test diagnosed 21/2 times more birds as chlamydial carriers than did the CF test. a. True b. False 3. A safe rule of thumb for the amount of blood that can be collected from a diseased 30 gram budgie is 0.3 cc (1% of the body weight). a. True b. False 4. The "wing vein" is the preferred site for venipuncture in most avian species. a. True b. False 5. Which one of the following statements is true? a. The refractometer is a reliable instrument for measuring serum protein. b. Serum electrophoresis was shown to be a valuable tool in diagnosing diseases. An elevation in the albumin to globulin ratio tends to indicate chronic infection; a decreasing ratio tends to indicate a positive response to treatment. c. Although uric acid levels are better in evaluating renal failure due to kidney disease, plasma urea concentra- tions was found to be superior in assessing prerenal failure. d. Aspartate aminotransferase (ASAT, SGOT) was found to be a reliable indicator of liver disease. 6. Which one of the following statements is true? a. The latter generation Beta Lactams (piperacillin, cefotaxime) can be effective when given orally. b. The American version of intravenous Vibramycin is effective and safe when administered intramuscularly. c. Amikacin is less renal-toxic and has greater activity against gram- negative bacteria than gentamicin. d. Chloramphenicol is a good drug to choose in life-threatening diseases due to its high efficacy against avian bacterial pathogens. 7. Sulfaltrimethoprim is an excellent bacteriocidal antibiotic for use in birds; it is effective when given orally. a. True b. False 8. In the treatment of psittacine beak and feather disease, a human gammaglobulin preparation may be able to alleviate some the of the symptoms of this disease in some birds. a. True b. False 9. Lead poisoning is the most widely reported poisoning in pet birds. Which one of the following is true with regard to this toxicosis? a. Protoporphyrin is most useful as a measurement of acute lead poisoning. b. Blood lead levels over 20 micrograms/dl are suggestive of lead poisoning and levels over 50 micrograms/dl are diagnostic. c. Delta-aminolevulinic acid dehydratase (ALA-D) is no longer considered a reliable method of monitoring lead poisoning. d. Zinc poisoning shows signs similar to lead poisoning, but cannot be treated with Ca EDTA. e. Lead levels in excess of 20 micrograms/dl will always produce signs of disease. 10. Polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) is the most commonly reported inhalant poisoning. Poisoning occurs when TeflonG is heated to 536 or above. SilverstoneG does not release these fumes when excessively heated. a. True b. False Answers to Self Assessment Test are on page 204. VOL.2 NO.4 1988 179</page><page sequence="2">What's New For Avian Practitioners Scavenging Pop-Off Valve A Vetroson scavenging pop-off valve, now available through Summit Hill Laboratories, is designed to upgrade older anesthesia machines that do not have scavenging capabilities. Made of chrome plated brass for longer life, the valve features a finer range of adjustment for more exact control of back pressure. It is available in six models to accommodate numerous brands of anesthetic machines. Circle No. 16, SUMMIT HILL LABORATORIES on the Reader Response Card. Effective Disinfectant for Giardia Results of a recently published study (Evaluation of the Efficacy of Selected Commercial Disinfectants in Inactivating Giardia muris Cysts - JAAHA, July/August, 1988, pp 379-385) demonstrate that quaternary ammonium-containing disinfectants inactivated purified G. muris cysts more rapidly and at lower concentra- tions than did other categories of disinfectants. Although Roccal-D per- formed well, Quatsyl 256 (available in the veterinary market as Virucal from Winthrop Veterinary) performed extremely well at recommended dilu- tion rates (1:256 or 1/2 oz. per gallon water). A "hospital mix" of 1 ounce Quatsyl 256, 8 ounces Clorox and 2 gallons water successfully inac- tivated giardial cysts. For more infor- mation on Virucal, the veterinary deoderizer/fungicide/ virucide, circle No. 17 WINTHROP VETERINARY on the Reader Response Card. WordSense Text System In the highly competitive computer software market, a new text manage- ment (word processing) system, WordSenseTM, offers two exceptional features: ease of use and price. Writ- ten by Bob Lentini of Las Vegas for IBM PC or compatible computers, WordSense was made available to the AAV Education Office and has been in use there for several months. The commands are so logical (e.g., move = MO; merge = ME; copy = CO), one hardly needs to read the manual in order to operate the program; yet it is extremely fast, powerful and flexi- ble, and handles everything from label printing to internal control of a laser printer and other sophisticated features. An introductory price of $99 is currently being offered. Circle No. 18 WORDSENSE on the Reader Response Card for more information. Tell our advertisers you saw it in AAV TODAY! ANSWERS TO SELF ASSESSMENT TEST ON PAGE 179 1. b. 2. a. (This test is not licensed for use in the USA at this time. Further work needs to be done in cor- relating the infective process with a positive ELISA test.) 3. a. 4. b. (The jugular and median metatarsal veins are superior, as fewer hematomas are produced at these locations.) 5. c. ("a" - Refractometers routinely produce excessively high levels of protein and are too variable; "b" - A decrease in the albumin:globulin ratio indicates in- fection. "d" - There is no serum enzyme test that can accurately diagnose liver disease in birds.) 6. c. 7. b. (Although sulfaltrimethoprim is an excellent antibiotic, it is bacteriostatic, not bacteriocidal.) 8. a. (The human gammaglobulin product - Gamimune N, Cutter Biological, Berkeley, CA 94710 - is not expected to eliminate the disease in any bird, but holds some promise as an immune mediator, allowing for some improvement in the condition in some birds.) 9. b. ("a" - Protoporphyrin is best for diagnosis of chronic lead poisoning; "c" - Some researchers believe ALA-D is the best test for assessing lead poisoning; "d" - Zinc poisoning is also treated with Ca EDTA; "e" -Clinical signs poorly correlate with actual blood lead levels.) 10. b. (SilverstoneG is another brand name for polytetrafluoro- ethylene and is toxic under the same conditions.) 204 AAV TODAY</page></plain_text>