<plain_text><page sequence="1">563 cles. The more highly a bar is magnetized, the more it becomes susceptible of a loss of power by agitation. "'An Account of a Protracting Pocket Sextant." By Colonel Bainbridge. Communicated by P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S. The object of the invention here described is to facilitate and ex- pedite the making of sketches and surveys for military purposes on actual service, and by serving at once as a sextant and protractor, so that as soon as an angle is taken, it may at once be laid down on paper by employing the two legs of the instrument as rulers. A de- scription referring to a diagram is given of this portable sextant. " Observations on the Growth and Development of the Epider- mis." By Erasmus Wilson, Esq., F.R.S., Lecturer on Anatomy and Physiology in the Middlesex Hospital. The author adduces evidence derived from his microscopic obser- vations, in confirmation of the commonly received doctrine respect- ing the origin of the cells of the epidermis and epithelium generally, firom the materials furnished by the liquor sanguinis or plasma of the blood; which fluid, passing by endosmosis through the walls of the capillary vessels and peripheral boundary of the surface, deve- lopes granules by a vital process, analogous to coagulation. On a careful examination of the inner surface of the epidermis with the aid of the microscope, he finds it to be composed of four kinds of elements, arranged in such a manner as to constitute an irregular plane, similar to a tesselated or mosaic pavement. These elements are,-1. Granules, which the author terms primitive, of a globular form, solid and apparently homogeneous, and measuring about 1-20,000th part of an inch in diameter. 2. Aggregated granules, having about double the diameter of the fornler and apparently com- posed of as many of these as can be aggregated together without leaving an unoccupied space in the centre of the mass. 3. Nucleated granules measuring in diameter from the 6000th to the 4000th part of an inch, each being composed of an aggregated granule as a nucleus, enveloped by a single layer of aggregated granules, giving to the whole mass an oval or circular, and at the same time flat- tened shape. Their constituent granules have acquired, during this aggregation, greater density, and are separated from each other by distinct interstitial spaces filled with a transparent homogeneous sub- stance. 4. Nucleolo-nucleolated cells pervading the deep stratum of the epidermis, and of which the longer diameter measures from the 3000th to the 2500th part of an inch. These cells, which constitute the principal portion, and may be regarded as the chief constituent of the epidermis, are formed from the nucleolated granules, on the ex- terior of which there is superposed a transparent layer, bounded by a well-defined outline, by the dark interstitial substance of the wall ofthe cell; the nucleolated granule being the nucleus, and the aggregated granule the nucleolus of these primitive cells of the epidermis. The author is of opinion that the nuclei, up to a certain point, grow with the cells, by the separation of the original granules from the deposi-</page><page sequence="2">564 tion between them of interstitial matter, and also by the cleavage of the latter and the consequent multiplication of the granules. This peripheral growth of the cells is totally different from the mode of growth described by Schwann, and explains the disappearance of the nucleus in the scales of the epidermis. The observations of the author lead him to believe that the same process of development and of growth is followed in the epithelium as in the epidermis; and he offers evidence, showing that similar arrangements take place in the cells of melanosis, in the pigment cells of the choroid membrane of the eye, and in those of the skin of the negro. "On the Temperature of Man." By John Davy, M.D., F.R.S. L. &amp; E. Having in a former paper shown that, contrary to a commonly received opinion, the temperature of the human body, as mea- sured by a thermometer placed under the tongue, is not a constant one, the author has resumed the inquiry, and gives, in the present paper, the results of numerous observations made with a particular instrument constructed for the purpose, admitting of minute accu- racy (each degree of the scale being divided into ten parts), and when used with the precautions pointed out, affording satisfactory indications in many problems which may be proposed relative to the temperature of man, &amp;c., and confines himself to a small number, offering the information he brings forward only as a preliminary contribution in aid of their solution. The paper is divided into seven sections. The first treats of variations of' temperature during the twenty-four hours. The author finds from his observations, tiat the temperature is highest in the morning, on rising after sleep; that it continues high, but fluctuating, till the evening; and that it is lowest about midnight, ranging on an average from 98'7 to 97'9. The second, of variations during the different seasons. These, he finds, bear some relation to the temperature of the air, but less than might be expected; which he attributes to the majority of the ob- servations having been made within doors, under circumstances pe- culiarly favourable to uniformity. The third, of the influence of active exercise on the temperature. The effect of this, when not carried to the length of exhausting fa- tigue, he finds to be elevating; and that the augmentation is, within a certain limit, proportional to the degree of muscular exertion. The fourth, of passive, such as carriage exercise. The effect of this in a cool air, contrary to that of quick walking or riding, would appear to be lowering. The fifth, of abstinence from all exercise in a cold atmosphere. This he finds to be depressing in a still greater degree; sitting in a cold church has occasioned a reduction of temperature from 1? to 2?, the air of the church being from 42? to 32?. The sixth, of sustained attention or exertion of mind. This would appear to have the effect of raising the temperature, but in a much less degree than bodily exercise.</page></plain_text>