<plain_text><page sequence="1">MEDICINE ~19" IME 447 . ? NECROPSY SUGGESTIONS (From Eastern States Veterinary Conference) Before approaching a necropsy, you need some idea of what infor mation you are seeking. If you have only one bird, you are some what limited in procedures, where as if you had a series of birds dying from the same cause, you can use a specific diagnostic test on each bird: one for tox icology, one for heavy metals, etc. In addition to wetting down the entire carcass so the plucked feathers don't fly around and con taminate the area, the skin should be swabbed with alcohol or an all purpose germicidal compound such as Roccal to prevent contamination of the inside with organisms from the surface. You may want to be careful in flaming your instru ments so that your first incision doesn't ignite the whole bird. Once you are inside, don't start manipulating the organs around looking for lesions. Af ter a quick perusal of the coel omic structures, take any samples for viral or bacterial isolation first, from sterilely cut sur faces of primarily the liver, spleen, kidney, lungs, and other organs with obvious lesions. Although small organs and tissues such as the thyroid, para thyroid, pituitary, and adrenals are sometimes overlooked, they may provide significant diagnostic information. These structures should be removed at the begin ning of the necropsy so the col lection of blood during the pro cedure does not obscure their location. Care should also be exercised in the handling of these samples once they're re moved from the coelomic cavity. If you take a piece of thyroid, for example, and put it in a col lection jar with all the other tissues, you may miss it later or forget what it is. We encourage the use of embedding bags (Curtin-Matheson) for isolated preservation of these very small structures. Made of paper, the bags allow the formalin to penetrate through. A small piece of cardboard with identification information (tis sue and case number) can be in serted into the bag at the same time. Air sac samples are also difficult to recognize once they have folded and fallen to the bottom of the jar. If you want to get a good section of air 'sac, tack it out flat and smooth on a piece of cardboard (hyperdermic needles at each corner will work) and fix it intact. The same technique works for skin. For microbial isolation, the organs should be kept sep arate as much as possible; in particular, the liver should never be mixed with any other organ. Enzymes released by the liver interfere with the isolation of organisms from other tissues. Keeping in mind that for malin can only penetrate 6 mm in 24 hours, large organs need to be sliced for proper preser vation. If a thin slice of liver floats in the formalin, it may suggest fat infiltration in the organ, although it may resemble necrosis. The most time-consuming part of the procedure may be the challenge of removing the brain intact, but you may miss significant diagnostic informa tion if this is not done. The top of the skull is paper thin, but as you progress toward the base, the cerebellum,, which is important for flight, becomes well-protected with cancellous bone. Small delicate scissors</page><page sequence="2">-20 are necessary and the procedure may take 20 minutes to complete. The brain is the only organ that is fixed intact (it may take several days), and the pathologist will handle it in his own way. ? Elliott Jacobson, D.V.M., Ph.D. University of Florida IME 448 . . MICROFILARIA AND FEATHER PICKERS I check all "first time" blood samples from psittacine birds for microfilaria and have found a positive correlation between many feather pickers and the presence of microfilaria. I've seen dramatic decreases to total cessation of some pickers with commencement of Ripercol (Levamisol) treatment at 1.0 ml in 4 oz drinking water day 1, reduced to \ ml in 4 oz drinking water for 30 consecutive days, where there has been no other treatment or changes in the bird's environment or diet. I am hypothesizing in these cases that the parasite may be having one or both of two effects: 1. generalized discomfort and sub-clinical ill health from parasitism 2. microfilaria may be blocking small capillary beds in the skin/feather follicle, causing tingling which the bird is reading as itching, which may account for the cessation of picking when the microfilaria count drops. Histologically, I haven't found microfilaria in skin capillary beds, but I am still looking and would appre ciate it if anyone doing full histologic post mortems on microfilaria positive birds would start looking. Clinically, the symptoms seem to reflect a parasite reaction of some sort. Feather pickers are always screened for microfilaria and thyroid levels in addition to a fecal parasite check, a fecal and feather culture. Usually a complete avian panel is also run. Many times I find many minor problems that are contri buting. If possible, we also blood sex the bird, which can aid in hormonal therapy if required. I treat feather pickers as one of the most com plex problems clinically to deal with. ? Cathy A. Johnson, D.V.M. Lynnwood, WA IME 449 . . CURRENT PAPOVAVIRUS STUDIES (From Western Poultry Disease Conference) We are continuing to work with the papovavirus (PV) that causes Budgerigar Fledgling Disease (BFD). We have developed a Fluorescent Antibody Viral Neutralization (FAVN) test that can be used to determine if budgies have been exposed to PV. We are also working on transmission studies and the development of a vaccine. There is a viral disease in large psittacines that is very similar to BFD. We have seen the virus with the electron micro scope and it appears identical to PV that causes BFD. These birds also exhibit viral antibodies that can be measured with the FAVN test for PV. We have not been able to isolate and charac terize this virus. Until this is accomplished, we will refer to the organism as a papova-like virus (PLV). Serological surveillance of collections of large psittacines with rio evidence of the disease has produced positive FAVN titers. Obviously the adults can live with the virus, and under most</page><page sequence="3">-21 circumstances, the fledgelings as well. We suspect a certain environment has to be present with large birds -- some stress or concurrent disease ? in order for the babies to come down with the condition. It seems to break out sporadically in these birds; the same pair of breeders may lose a clutch of fled^pLings one year to the disease, but not the next year. The disease becomes evident at a later age in larger species, usually at 2-8 weeks as compared to 1-4 weeks in budgies. A common denominator in larger psittacines appears to be hand feeding. Although we don't know for sure, it's possible that an outbreak may be related to the stress of force-feeding and perhaps even spread by the feeding instruments or nursery environment. The age in the larger birds may also correspond to the time of the stress of weaning. We feel the higher incidence of this disease in budgerigars is related in part to the actual aviculture of the species. Collections of the highly prolific budgies can have babies of all ages in the aviaries year round, which becomes a fertile place for the virus to maintain its momentum. Larger species tend to have seasonal clutches in groups, then "shut down" reproductively for a while, so the babies are more similar in age at one time and the virus dies out for lack of a host. ? Richard B. Davis, D.V.M. University of Georgia IME 450 . . CHRONIC UPPER RESPIRATORY DISEASE IN AMAZONS Check chronic upper respiratory sinusitis amazons for low thyroid levels. I have found many of them are (at least while symptomatic) hypothyroid - less than 1.1/1CG/M-11 ve begun supple menting those birds with thyroid as an adjunct to symptomatic treatment or antibiotics for secondary bacterial infection as a current culture warrants. The respiratory symptoms clear more quickly and with far less recurrence. Amazons with sinus problems are always cultured, checked for psittacosis titer levels, i.e. other problems ruled out also. I use an initial sinus flush of Vitamin A and Tylan diluted with PSS. If the bird is a repeat sinusitis case, a thyroid level is taken. Since beginning treatment of these repeater chronic birds with thyroid, many have returned to euthyroid blood levels, and none (so far) have had recurrence of the URD symptoms. Several owners have reported that this was the first fall/winter their birds haven't had sinusitis. This may support the theory of low grade viral infections and/or poor metabolic-immune systems of which thyroid supplementation gives the bird a "boost". Thyroid treatment may be required only during "stress times" for these birds. -- Cathy A. Johnson, D.V.M. Lynnwood, WA 98036 IME 451 . . ECTOPIC EGGS If the usual techniques for delivering an egg in an eggbound bird are not successful, consider the possibility of ectopic eggs. Recently we had 2 budgies and 1 African Grey presented with eggs free in the body cavity (on initial exam - not iatrogenic). These eggs must be removed by laparotomy. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., D.V.M. Hawthorne, CA</page><page sequence="4">-22 IME 452 . . URIC ACID CONCENTRATIONS In "Harns'aurebestimmungen im Blutplasma bei verschiedenen Vogelarten'1 (Uric Acid Concentrations in the Blood Plasma of Several Bird Species), Carl-R?diger Baumann has reported his findings in clinically healthy Psittaciformes. Reported in mmol/l, the common mean value and standard deviation have been converted to mg% (mg/dl). Budgerigars (Me I opsittacus unduI at us): 0-284 ? 0.056 mmol/l = 4.77 ? 0.94 mg% Blue-fronted Amazons (Amazona aest iva): 0.254 - 0.057 mmol/l = 4.27 ? 0.96 mg% Green-cheeked Amazons (Amazona iridigenaI is): 0.280 - 0.052 mmol/l = 4.71 ? 0.87 mg% African Grey Parrot (Ps.it tacus erythacus ) : 0.315 ? 0.088 mmol/l = 5.30 ? 1.48 mg% In regard to Accipitriformes, the uric acid concentrations in blood plasma were also reported with a mean value and standard deviation. There are marked differences between grain eating or meat eating birds, but no significant distinctions seem to exist between the species within either group. Influences of age or sex on plasma uric acid levels have not been observed in any species. In pigeons there are significant differences between breeds. Eagles (belonging to Aquila, Hal iaetus or Hiraaetus): 0.514 t 0.044 mmol/l = 8.64 0.74 mg% Goshawks (Accipiter gentiI is): 0.498 0.050 mmol/l = 8.37 ? 0.84 mg% Buzzards (Buteo buteo): 0.526 0.049 mmol/l = 8.84 ? 0.82 mg% ? Dr. Helga Gerlach Mississippi State, MS I ME 453 . . TOBRAMYCIN RESEARCH In our research with tobramycin in Great-horned owls, Barred owls, Red-tailed hawks and miscellaneous raptors, the half life and pharmacokinetics of the product were found to be similar to gentamycin when administered at the same dose, 1-2 mg/kg IM b.i.d. However, the primary advantage of tobra mycin appears to be in the reduced renal toxicity. Concentrations of the drug in the kidney were.found to be 40-65% less than with gentamycin at the same dose. This has also been previously documented in human and rat research.</page><page sequence="5">-23 In addition, when tobramycin was used in combination with IM injections of cephalothin (Keflin - 100 mg/kg t.i.d. to q.i.d.) some protective mechanism occurred to reduce the renal toxicity even further. This mechanism was also found to be so with rats and humans. ? Richard Evans, D.V.M,, M.S. Treehouse Wildlife Center IME 454 . . USE OF X-RAY GRID I have seen a substantial increase in the diagnostic quality of avian radiographs since I started using a Microline 8:1 (80 lines per inch) ultrafine X-ray grid that I hadn't used for years. It especially seems to help in the resolution of semi-dense masses such as granulomas in the air sacs, and differentiating air sacculitis from artifacts, in most cases. -- Greg J. Harrison, D.V.M. Lake Worth, FL</page></plain_text>