<plain_text><page sequence="1">4. " On the Organ of Hearing in Crustacea." By Arthur Farre, M.D., F.R.S. The author finds that in the Lobster (Astacus marinus), the organ of hearing consists of a transparent and delicate vestibular sac, which is contained in the base, or first joint of the small antennae ; its situa? tion being indicated externally by a slight dilatation ofthe joint at this part, and also by the presence of a membrane covering an oval aper? ture, which is the fenestra ovalis. The inner surface of the sac gives origin to a number of hollow processes, which are covered with minute hairs and filled with granular matter, apparently nervous. A delicate plexus of nerves, formed by the acoustic nerve, which is a separate branch supplied from the supra-cesophageal ganglion, is distributed over the base of these processes and around the sac. Within the sac there are always found a number of particles of sili- ccous sand, which are admitted, together with a portion of the sur? rounding water, through a valvular orifice at the mouth of the sac, being there placed apparently for the express purpose of regulating the size of the grains. The author considers these siliccous parti? cles as performing the office of otolites, in the same way as the stones taken into the stomachs of granivorous birds supply the office of gastric teeth. Several modifications of this structure exhibited in the organs of hearing of the Astacus fluviatilis, Pagurus streb- b</page><page sequence="2">472 lonyx, and Palinurus quadricomis are next described, and an ex? planation attcmpted of the uses of the several parts and their sub- serviency to the purposes of that sense. The author concludes by a description of another organ situated at the base of the large antennce, which it appears has been con- foundecl with the former by some anatomists, but which the author conjectures may possibly constitute an organ of smell. The paper is accompanied by illustrative drawings.</page></plain_text>