<plain_text><page sequence="1">? Greg J. Harrison, DVM Wildlife Rehabilitation Lake worth, fl IME 499 . . LEGALITIES OF PROVIDING EMERGENCY VETERINARY CARE TO AN ENDANGERED SPECIES On July 14, a Bald Eagle, which was being trained for use in the opening ceremonies of the 19 84 Olympics, died from a septicemia. Prior to the birdfs death, the trainer sought medical assistance from at least one local veterin arian who apparently refused the request because he did not have permits to care for an endangered species. The trainer, therefore, ad to drive a longer distance for veterinary support. The bird, unfortunately, died enroute. The following information briefly outlines the legalities and our responsibilities in provi ding medicapl care to an endangered animal. Federal regulations state that a federal employee or a state employee working in a Wildlife Conservation Department can pro vide care to an endangered species on an emergency basis. This law does appear to exclude veterin arians without permit the oppor tunity to provide assistance to an injured endangered species. How ever, the accepted policy is as follows:</page><page sequence="2">1. If a veterinarian receives an endangered species in a non life-threatening situation, he should call law enforcement per sonnel of either his state conser vation department or of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (local or regional). They will either recommend transferring the bird to an approved facility or will give authorization to initiate treat ment. 2. In a iiire-tnreatening sit uation , the veterinarian should provide emergency medical care prior to contacting law enforce ment personnel. 3. If one cannot contact a local wildilife law enforcement agent, he should contact the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service regional office closest to him: Region 1 - Northwest (Portland) [503] 231-6125 Region 2 - Southwest (Albuquerque) [505] 766-2091 Region 3 - Great Lakes Area (Minneapolis) [612] 725-3530 Region 4 - Southeast (Atlanta) [404] 221-5872 Region 5 - Northeast (Boston) [617] 965-2298 Region 6 - Rocky Mountain Area (Denver) [303] 234-4612 Region 7 - Alaska [907] 786-3311 Region 8 - Washington, D.C.Area [202] 343-9242 - James W. Carpenter Patuxent Wildlife Research Center Laurel, MD I ME 500 . . CHLAMYDIOSIS IN RAPTORS (From Western Poultry Disease Conference) Two Red-tailed Hawks died over a two month period at the UC Davis Raptor Center with clinical signs of muscle wasting and anor exia. The classical lesions of chlamydiosis were found at necrop sy and the organism was isolated in sufficient quantities to con firm a diagnosis. To determine the status of the organism in the rest of the clinically healthy flock (repres enting several species of rap tors) , a culture survey was con ducted which revealed positive isolations in 10% of the birds. Concurrent serology samples indi cated over 50% of the birds had a degree of exposure to the organ ism; rises in the values of titers were evident in some multiple sampling. Treatment of the birds and an intensive clean-up were instituted at the Center. Day old chicks were injected at a dose for the raptor of 50 mg/kg tetracycline and fed once daily for 41 days. Apparently this was an effective dose, as all positive birds were negative following therapy. Shortly after the treatment concluded, another Red-tailed Hawk died and significant levels of Chlamydia were isolated at necrop sy. This individual had been negative in previous culture at tempts. In a review of flock treatment records, however, this bird had not eaten the medicated chick in 10 days out of the 41. Also during this time, one of the volunteers in the clean-up program acquired the organism. She responded well to therapy after being hospitalized with flu like symptoms (and a significant increase in titer). Although vol unteers in the clean-up program were asked to wear masks and gloves, we believe she acquired this organism from the birds. Obviously raptors can main tain the chlamydial organism for a period of time, but little is known as to how they may be infec ted, or the treatment regimen required by these species. ? Murray E. Fowler, DVM University of CA, Davis</page></plain_text>