<plain_text><page sequence="1">937 which take place in the uterus during utero-gestation, and observes, first, that there is no similarity between the fibres of the round liga- ment and those of the unimpregnated uterus, the latter being made up of spindle-shaped nucleated fibres, contained in a matrix of exceedingly coherent granular matter; that these fibres are best examined in portions which have been broken up by needles, in preference to thin sections; and that this tissue is well seen in the larger mammals, as in the Cow, &amp;c. In the impregnated uterus the fibres are found much increased in size and distinctness, but devoid of nuclei and comparatively loosely connected; and the en- largement of these fibres is of itself sufficient to account for the increased volume of the gravid uterus, without supposing that a set of muscular fibres are formed in it de novo. Hence he reasons that the unimpregnated uterus consists probably of little more than an assemblage of embryonic nucleated fibres, in- active until the ovum is received into it, after which their develop- ment commences and continues simultaneously and progressively with that of the fcetus; so that when this last has arrived at a state requiring to be expelled, the uterus has acquired its greatest expulsory power. Lastly, the author observes, since the fully-developed fibres cannot return to their former embryonic condition, they necessarily become absorbed, and a new set of embryonic fibres are formed for the next ovum, so that each foetus is furnished with its own set of expulsory fibres; which view is in perfect accordance with the statements of Drs. Sharpey and Weber, with regard to the mem- brana decidua. April 18, 1850. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. Robert Stephenson, Esq., was admitted into the Society. The following papers were read:- 1. " On the Solution of Linear Differential Equations." By the Rev. Brice Bronwin, M.A. Communicated by S. Hunter Christie, Esq., Sec. R.S. The methods employed in this paper to effect the solution or re- duction of linear differential equations consist of certain peculiar transformations, and each particular class of equations is transformed by a distinct process peculiarly its own. The reduction is effected by means of certain general theorems in the calculus of operations. The terms which form the first member of the first class of equa- tions are functions of the symbols w and r, the latter being a function of x, and the former a function of x and D, x being the independent variable. This member of the equations contains two arbitrary functions of w, and may therefore be of any order whatever. It likewise contains two simple factors, such for example as w and '+nnk, which factors are taken away by the transformation em-</page><page sequence="2">938 ployed, andt consequently the equation is reduced an order lower; it is therefore integrated when of the second order. There is a se- ries of equations of this class, each essentially distinct from the rest, yet all reducible by a similar process. These equations contain two arbitrary functions of x. The nun- ber therefore of particular practicable forms, which may be deduced fron each, is very great, a circumstxance which renders our chance of putting any proposed equation under one of these forms greater in the same proportion. On account of the very large number of particular integrable equations which each general example furnishes, selection would be very dificult, and all could not be given; the au- thor has therefore refrained firom giving any. The second class of equations may he deduced from the first by the interchange of the symbols D and x, adcl ch-anging g into r-1. The second general theorem can be deduced from the first in like nmanner; and this class -may be transforined and reduced by it in a manner exactly similar to that by which the former class is reduced by the first general theorem. The solution therefore of the one se- ries may be deduced from that of the other by the interchange of symbols only. But in the second series the solutions obtained are not always practicable, that is to say, they cannot always be inter- preted in finite termss. They have therefore been reduced by the introduction of new arbitrary functions of D, which render them practicable; this process however necessarily diminishes their gene- rality. When reduced to the ordinary form, tllese equations are somlewhat complicated; but by giving suitable forms to the arbitrary funlctions of' D which they contain, we imay derive froml themn particular ex- amples of a forml as simple as we please, and by introducing as many arbitrary constants as possible, these examples may be imade very general of the class to which they belong. In the integration of linear equations, the coefficients of which are integer functions of x, they may prove very useful. INext, an equation, a particular case of which was treated by Mr. Boole in the Camnbridge Mathlematical Journal, is here integrated under its most general form. Instead of integer functions of' x the coefficients may be any functions whatever, consistent with the con- dition of integrability, which is ascertained, and the foirmula of re- duction assunied by Mr. Boole are shown to be universally true. An additional function of the independent variable is also introduced into the operating sym-bol 7r. The eqnation therefore, independently of the condition of integrability, contains two arbitrary functions of x, and consequently gives rise to a considerable number of particular integrable examples. H-ere also the iinterchange of the symbols D and x is made, both in the equation to be integrated and in the geneial symbolical theoren by which it is reduced, and the same reduction to prac- ticable forms as before is likewise made. The next class of equations results from the generalization of an- other equation integrated by Mr. Boole in the Cambridge Miathema-</page><page sequence="3">939 tical Journal. Here the symbol D of Mr. Boole is replaced by the general symbol w, and mioreover the first member of each equation contains two arbitrary functions of w; and by imeans of another extension, this example gives rise to a whole series of equations con- stituting a class. The reduction is eff?ected partly by the first general theorem in the calculus of operations, and partly by other means. It must be observed that each of the classes is totally distinct from the others, and its mode of treatment also distinct; also each of the general examples in the series contains two arbitrary functions of the independent variable, and will therefore give the solutions of a large number of particular equations, but for the reason before stated particular examples are not given. Here likewise, by the interchange of the symbols D and x, another series of equations with their solutions or reductions is obtained, and also another general theorem by which they miay be transformed and reduced. But the solutions of the examples of tlhe one series may be deduced from those of the other by the interchange of symbols. It is not a little remarkable that this interchange of symbols inl all these cases should be found possible, it will however be found pos- sible in another case to be hereafter described, The last class of equations discussed in this paper is transformed by means of a general theorem of a very different kind from any of those which have been employed in reducing and integrating any of the previous classes. By mleans of this transformation, the symbol 'a, of which the first member of these equations is a function, is placed in a position to operate upon the whole of that miember, a certain equation of condition among the coefficients being previously admitted. Hence by operating upon both members. with the inverse of this symbol, the equation is once integrated, and, if it be of' the second order only, completely solved. Here too the interchange of symbols may be made both in the equation and its solution, and the solution so changed will be the solution of the equation changed in like manner. The general sym- bolical theorems, which here consist of a series of term-s, may be de- rived the one from the other in the same way, and by changing the signs of the alternate terms. Reductions of the arbitrary functions of D, similar to those before made, are made here also; and by particularizing soice of the func- tions so reduced for the sake of simplification, several very singular resulting equations are obtained. If in these we assign to the re- maining arbitrary filnctions, particular forms, and introduce as many arbitrary constants as we can, we vmay find particular examples which may be of' great use in the integration of equations withl coefficients containing only integer functions of x. By a very obvious substitution an arbitrary function of x may be introduced into any of this kind of equations, and also another func- tion of D, and the last often w-ith great advantage. 2. " On the Oils produced by the action of Sulphuric Acid upon various classes of Vegetables." By John Stenhouse, Esq., F.R.S.</page></plain_text>