<plain_text><page sequence="1">804, papille. The capillaries are connected together at the bases of the secondary papillae, and arise from a common trunk immersed in the body of the papilla. The nerves are found to subdivide in the se- parate cones, in which they ascend to the apex and terminate in abrupt extremities, as in the frog, toad, &amp;c. In the feetus the fun- giform papillie are stated to consist of a simple cone without any secondary papillae. 3. The conical or filiform papillae of man are described to be of a compound nature, consisting of numerous secondary cones spring- ing from a common stem. Each of these secondary cones is clothed with an elongated process which is fitted on the cone like a sheath. This process consists of elongated epithelial scales ascending towards the summit, and resembling in general appearance the feather of an arrow. At their summit these processes are clothed with an exter- nal zone of granular matter, which considerably adds to their thick- ness. This granular matter is often detached after the papilla has been' removed a short time from the tongue. The blood-vessels form a simple loop at the summit of the papilla, and the nerves are ar- ranged in a similar manner. 4. The inferior surface is described as very smooth, presenting numerous follicles abundantly supplied with blood-vessels and nerves. These follicles are generally of a conical shape and surrounded with an arch composed of epithelial cells. The nerves may frequently be detected and followed over the surface of the follicle, but their ex- tremities are hidden amidst the blood-vessels. The author has illustrated the paper by several drawings. March 8, 1849. The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, V.P., in the Chair. A paper was read, entitled " Additional Observations on the Os- teology of the Iguanodon and Hyleosaurus." By Gideon Algernon Mantell, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S., V.P.G.S., &amp;c. This memoir is supplementary to the author's former communi- cations to the Royal Society on the same subject, and comprises an account of some important additions which he has lately made to our previous knowledge of the osteological structure of the colossal reptiles of the Wealden of the South-east of England. The acquisition of some gigantic and well-preserved vertebre and bones of the extremities from the Isle of Wight, and of other in- structive specimens from Sussex and Surrey, induced the author to resume his examination of the detached parts of the skeletons of the Wealden reptiles in the British Museum, and in several private col- lections; and he states as the most important result of his investi- gations, the determination of the structure of the vertebral column, pectoral arch, and anterior extremities of the Iguanodon. In the la- borious and difficult task of examining and comparing the numerous</page><page sequence="2">805 detached, and for the most part mutilated bones of the spinal column, Dr. Mantell expresses his deep obligation to Dr. G. A. Melville, whose elaborate and accurate anatomical description of the vertebra is appended to the memoir. The most interesting fossil remains are described in detail in the following order. Lower Jaw.-Since the author's communication on the lower jaw of the Iguanodon, published in the Philosophical Transactions, part ii. 1 848, he has discovered the right angular bone, which was pre- viously unknown: from the circurmstances under which this relic was found, he considers it probable that it belonged to the same individual as the teeth figured in Plate XVIII. of the Philosophical Transactions for 18$48. Vertebral column.--The vertebrme hitherto assigned to the Igua- nodon consist of the middle and posterior dorsal and anterior cau- dal, as identified by means of the Maidstone specimen in the British Museum: the cervical, anterior dorsal, lumbar, and posterior and terminal caudals, were previously either undetermined or referred to other genera of saurians. The investigations of Dr. Melville have established the important and highly interesting fact, that the cervi- cal and anterior dorsal vertebrm of the Iguanodon were convexo- concave-that is, convex in front and concave behind-as in the fossil reptile of Honfleur termed Streptospondylus, and in the exist- ing pachyderms; the convexity gradually diminishing, and the an- terior face of the body of the vertebra becoming flat, in the middle and posterior part of the dorsal region. The supposed Streptospon- dylian vertebra of the Wealden (named S. major by Professor Owen in British Association Reports on fossil reptiles) are, in the opinion of the author and Dr. Melville, the true cervical vertebre of the Iguanodon. The convexo-concave type of vertebre was not con- fined to a single genus--the Streptospondylus of the Oolite--but prevailed in two, and probably in several, genera of extinct sau- rians of the secondary geological epochs; in like manner as the re- verse form, the concavo-convex, predominates in the existing cro- codilians and lizards. Other large vertebrae found with ribs and bones of the extremities of the Iguanodon, and referred by Professor Owen to one or more species of Cetiosaurus, are regarded, in consequence of the peculiar structure of the neural arch, as belonging to the posterior dorsal and lumbar vertebrae of the former colossal reptile; and certain some- what angular vertebre, also previously assigned to a species of Ce- tiosaurus, are presumed to be the middle and distal caudals of the Iguanodon. The Sacrum, of which portions of several examples belonging to individuals of much disparity in size have been obtained, is shown to consist of six anchylosed vertebre; not offive, as described by Pro- fessor Owen; and the typical specimen in the possession of Mr. Saull, which the author figures and describes, is adduced in proof of the correctness of this opinion. The anterior vertebra, and the two posterior ones, are much larger and stronger than the three inter- mediate elements which occupy the centre of the arch of the sacrum.</page><page sequence="3">806 Pectoral arch.-A perfect scapula discovered in the strata of Til- gate Forest, and which corresponds with the coracoid bone, provi- sionally assigned to the Iguanodon in the memoir of 1841 (Phil. Trans. P1. IX. fig. 11), Dr. Mantell has been enabled to refer to that reptile, by the fortunate interpretation of portions of two scapulae which are preserved in the Maidstone specimen, but had not pre- viously been recognized as such. As the clavicles were long since determined, the essential elements of the pectoral arch are now as- certained, and the author gives a restored outline of this important part of the skeleton, based upon these data. Hlumerus.-A humerus three feet long, discovered by Mr. Fowles- tone in the Isle of Wight, has been ascertained by the author to belong to the Iguanodon, from the presence of a small but corresponding bone in the Maidstone fossil. This bone, from its disproportionate size in comparison with the femur with which it is collocated--being one-third shorter--was formerly assigned by Dr. Mantell to the fore- arm; but the large humerus from the Isle of Wight, which, except in magnitude, is identical with that from Maidstone, leaves no doubt upon the subject. It is now therefore, for the first time, ascertained, that in the Iguanodon, as in many fossil and recent reptiles, the an- terior extremities were much shorter and less bulky than the poste- rior. The radius and ulna are still undetermined, but the author states that there are some imperfect bones in his former collection, now in the British Museum, which he thinks will be found to belong to the fore-arm. Hinder extremities.-The colossal magnitude of the Iguanodon is strikingly shown by some femora- and leg-bones recently discovered. Onefemur is 27 inches in circumference, and must have been 4 feet 8 or 10 inches in length; and a tibia, found with the same, is 4 feet long. Dermal scutes and spines.--The author figures and describes se- veral dermal scutes and spines, and states that a microscopical exa- mination of the large angular bones of the Hylaeosaurus (Phil. Trans. 1841, PI. X. fig. 1), supposed by him to be ossified dermal spines, but which Professor Owen regarded as the abdominal extremities of ribs, proves the correctness of his own opinion; their structure being identical with that of the acknowledged dermal scutes. In the summary which concludes the memoir, Dr. Mantell states that the facts described confirm in every important point the phy- siological inferences relating to the structure and habits of the Igua- nodon and Hylaeosaurus, enunciated in his former communications; and thus, after the lapse of a quarter of a century, he concludes his attempts to restore the skeletons of the colossal saurian herbivores, of whose former existence a few water-worn teeth and fragments of bones were the only indications, when, in 1825, he first had the ho- nour to submit to the Royal Society a notice on the teeth of the Iguanodon.</page></plain_text>