<plain_text><page sequence="1">406 If the wax be spread thin upon glass and exposed to the action of light, its colour is rendered paler; but the author has not yet suc- ceeded in bleaching it effectually. Sulphuric acid changes the colour of the wax to a pale brown; and if heat be applied, the decomposition usual with such substances takes place, with extrication of sulphurous acid gas, and decompo- sition of charcoal. Though cold acetic acid has very little action on it, yet when boiled upon it for a very long time, it appeared to have rendered it nearly white; but when the wax was afterwards washed with water and fused, it resumed its former colour. When it is fused in oxymuriatic gas, muriatic acid and water are formed, and charcoal is deposited. Though Mr. Brande's attempts to bleach this wax have not hitherto completely succeeded, yet since it has been rendered nearly white by the usual method of exposure to light after the action of nitric acid upon it, there seems no reason to suppose that it might not be per- fectly bleached by exposure for a sufficient length of time. With respect to its combustion in the form of canldles, the author's trials have been very satisfactory. When the wick is duly propor- tioned, the combustion is as perfect and uniform as that of any other wax; and when about one sixth or one tenth of tallow is added to it, the brittleness which this wax has in its natural state is removed, without communicating to it any unpleasant odour, or impairing the brilliancy of the flame. Astronomical Observations relating to the Construction of the Heavens, arranged for the Purpose ogf a critical Exanzination, the Result of which appears to throw some new Light upon the Organization of the celestial Bodies. By William Herschel, LL.D. F.R.S. Read June 20, 1811. [Phil. Trans. 1811, p. 269.] Dr. Herschel, having repeatedly re-examined many of the nebu- lous appearances which he has formerly described, finds that these objects may be arranged in a certain order of regular succession, so as to be viewed in a new light; and in consequence of these views, his opinions respecting the inferences to be drawn from the pheno- mena have undergone a gradual change, especially with regard to the possibility of resolving many of them into stars, as he had formerly supposed might be done by telescopes of higher power than he had yet employed. His present arrangement begins with the appearances of diffused nebulosity. Of these he has determined the positions and magnitudes of 52 in number, the aggregate extent of which amounts to 150 square degrees; and since the depth of each may be supposed nearly equal to the length or breadth, the total amount of luminous matter con- tained in the small proportion of infinite space which we see, exclu- sive of that which is too dilute to be visible, exceeds all calculation. Of these nebulous diffusions, the intensity of the light is not</page><page sequence="2">407 uniform; for though in some parts their light is uniformly milky, in others it is more faint, and might, at first sight, be thought resolv- able into stars. The greater brightness in one part than in another may arise either from greater depth or from greater density, and is thought by Dr. Herschel rather to arise from the latter, which he as- cribes to a mutual gravitation of its parts to each other. Facts, says the author, are not wanting to prove that such a power has been ex- erted; and it is his intention to point out a series of phenomena where the vestiges of such exertion may be distinctly seen. Those nebulx, which from their present want of uniformity seem to have more than one centre of attraction, may, in fact, at this time consist of two nebulae, the limits of which unite only in appearance; or they may be actually united, but undergoing a gradual sepa- ration. In the same manner other nebulhe, for which the author refers to his catalogues, are found to be treble, quadruple, sextuple, &amp;c. With regard to the forms of nebulhe, some are narrow and very long, others of equal length are in a certain degree broader; others again are of an irregular figure; and from all these, nothing can be inferred as to their extent in the third dimension, which is not seen. But when the visible surface is nearly elliptical, and still more if the circumference be nearly circular there, a spheroidical or spherical form may with some confidence be presumed; and these, it is ob- served, are forms naturally resulting from a principle of attraction. The central brightness of some nebulae point out the seat of prin- cipal attraction; and though in many such a difference is scarcely perceptible, there are many others in which the brightness of the centre is considerably greater than that of their circumference, so as to present very much the appearance of many telescopic comets, of which the nucleus is not distinct; and others also, in which a cen- tral nucleus is distinctly seen, surrounded by a bright and circular nebula. These various degrees of condensation, seen in different nebulae, are supposed by the author successively to take place in the same nebula, and are thus connected into one view, to show the progress of condensation. The condensation, says Dr. Herschel, may be considered as evi- dence of their materiality; and he also infers opacity, which is an- other property of matter, from the circumstance of their not being so bright as he would expect from their observed condensation. The appearance of certain very regular nebulae, with extensive branches, suggests to Dr. Herschel various queries respecting the gradual change and ultimate result of condensation. Do not the branches connected with a nucleus resemble the zo- diacal light connected with our sun ? May not portions of branches collect into a planetary form and re- volve around the central nucleus, having themselves a rotatory mo- tion, in consequence of the inequality and irregular position of dif&amp; ferent branches ?</page><page sequence="3">408 Among the nebulhe that have been formerly observed by the author, he refers to seven, which he considers as having approached very near to final condensation; and of these he observes, that we see only a superficial lustre, resembling that of planets, which are opake bodies, and not such as might be expected if the nebulous matter had no other quality than that of shining, and were perfectly transparent. The author observes, that the spheroidal form which prevails among nebulae, is another circumstance of resemblance to planetary bodies, from which also their rotation on their axes may be inferred. That nebulae do really undergo successive changes, the author de- duces not only from a comparison of different nebulae with each other, but from a comparison of his own observations, made upon the ne- bula in Orion at this time, with those which he himself made thirty- seven years since. The figure of it, at that time, he also then observed to differ from that given by Dr. Smith in his optics; and he now remarks, that it differs from the delineation given by Huygens in his Systema Sa- turnium. In the course of the gradual contraction of this nebula, Dr. Hers- chel has also observed certain stars which had appeared nebulous to become distinct by removal of a nebulous covering, and thence infers that this nebula is certainly nearer to us than stars of the seventh or eighth magnitude, and possibly not more distant than those of the third. Notwithstanding, therefore, the extreme dissimilitude between the appearance of diffused nebulosity and that of a star, they seem to have a natural connexion by the several intermediate gradations that have been described. A nebulosity may be conceived so dilute as to be invisible till partially condensed; a nebulosity may become con- verted into a planetary nebula. The planetary nebula with uniform light may, by gradual condensation of its centre, be converted into a stellar nebula with bright central nucleus, surrounded by a more di- lute bur; and this at last assumes the appearance of a complete star, by condensation of so large a portion of its nebulous matter, that the remainder is no longer visible by the best telescopes. Experiments to ascertain the State in which Spirit exists in fermented Liquors: with a Table exhibiting the relative Proportion of pure Alcohol contained in several Kinds of Wine and some other Liquors. By William Thomas Brande, Esq. F.R.S. Read June 13, 1811. [:Phil. Trans. 1811, p. 337.] An opinion having been entertained by many persons, that alcohol which has been distilled from wine does not exist ready formed in the liquor, but is generated during the process of distillation, Mr. Brande undertookl a repetition of Fabroni's experiment, on which this opinion is principally founded; but when he added four ounces of dry subearbonate of potash to eighlt fluid ounces of port, no alcohol w;vas separated, although some of the same wine had previously been</page></plain_text>