<plain_text><page sequence="1">Suspected Ergotism in Handfed Toucans Three immature Keel-billed Toucans (Ramphastos sulphuratus), approximately 19-22 days of age, were removed from the parents' nest log for handfeeding and rearing. The handfeeding diet consisted of Purina Kitten Chow+ soaked in warm water, with freshly diced papaya and grapes. At six weeks of age, the three birds were presented for examination after gradual development of progressive constrictions of one or more of the digits over a two-week period. On physical examination, all three birds were of good body weight and hydra- tion and were quite active. Each bird had lesions in different stages affect- ing one or more digits. The least af- fected bird showed only slight con- striction of the first digit on the right foot. The second bird had a definite area of constriction and demarcation involving digit number one on the right foot. The third bird, which was the most severely affected, had in- volvement of both feet. Interestingly, digits number one on both feet had definite circumferential constrictions in the middle of the digits. All the involved digits were warm to the touch and showed varying degrees of inflammation. There was no evidence of a circulating, constricting material, such as thread, on any of the digits. Upon consultation with the California State Diagnostic Laboratory, a possible etiology of ergotism was suggested as the birds were being fed a grain-based diet. A portion of the box of Purina Kitten Chow+ was submitted to the state lab for mycotoxin analysis. The results eventually came back negative for the listed mycotoxins. In the meantime, the bird's diet was changed to Science Diet Canine Growth+ kibble. Ketoconazole, dosed at 30 mg/kg body weight per day, was administered orally in a grape for a two-week period. Panalog+ cream was used as a massage twice daily on the affected digits. Following the change in diet and start of therapy, no additional digital necrosis was noted. The digits in- volved in birds number two and three eventually fell off, while the af- fected digit in bird number one re- mained on the bird with no further progression of the lesion. Practically, diagnosis of ergotism may be challenging as a number of factors need to be considered. 1) Isolation of a potentially toxic fungus is not diagnostic of mycotoxicosis, as the discovered strain may not be a toxin producer. 2) Presence of a mycotoxin in a feed sample must be viewed in light of the amount pre- sent in the sample and the species in question. 3) The sample analyzed may be devoid of the toxin, while another unanalyzed sample from the same batch may contain the toxin. 4) Reproducibility in these species is impractical. A differential diagnosis for the etiology of this distal extremity necrosis should include trauma, frostbite, cardiovascular changes, and mycotoxins such as ergot. As the history in this case involved no evidence of trauma, frostbite, or other clinical signs, a diagnosis of ergotism is plausible in these birds. - Amy Beth Worell, DVM, Woodland Hills, California (From Proceedings 36th Western Poultry Disease Con.)</page></plain_text>