<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 9: 153-159, 1985 A PACKAGE FOR THE ANALYSIS OF VEGETATION DATA BY MICROCOMPUTERS Otto WILDI Swiss Federal Institute of Forestry Research, Birmensdorf , Switzerland, CH-8903 A program package, originally developed for mainframe computers, has been adapted for a recent generation of MS-DOS microcomputers. The package offers a solution to many problems which hitherto limited the application of multivariate methods in vegetation studies. The programs in the package can be used instantly even by a beginner and they offer choice of well known multivariate algorithms. The hardware is affordable and even portable. Computer and program may therefore become part of the standard tools in research and teaching. INTRODUCTION Multivariate analysis is always indicated when many variables describe the sample. This is in fact typically so in vegetation work. The examples are numerous and they are often referred to by others in different fields. Groth et al. (1977), for example, mention the "botanical approach" when discussing the problem of clustering galaxies. The multivariate methods even affected subjective classification, i.e. "Tabellenarbeit" which was described by Ellenberg (1956) and Mueller-Dombois and Ellenberg (1974). The earlier applications used technical means to speed up the process, such as punch-cards (Ellenberg and Klötzli 1972), but more recently computer programs perform the task much more efficiently. Van der Maarel (1982) reviewed papers which deal with the editing of phytosociological tables. Surprisingly, he concluded that there is no longer need for more software in this specific field. However, structuring phytosociological tables, a typical task for multivariate</page><page sequence="2">154 analysis, involves new formal methods which, even if for no other reason than for their efficiency, may attract implementation . Operationality of course has always been a problem. Goodall's (1954) application of principal component analysis is a good example which was a pioneering sind adoring undertaking at the time owing to the computational methods which became operational much later in the early seventies when computers became more powerful. Many textbooks now cover the field (Mueller-Dombois and Ellenberg 1974, Pielou 1977, 1984, Orlôci 1978, Green 1979, Gauch 1982, Greig-Smith 1982, Legendre et Legendre 1983, Feoli et al. 1984 and others), but the development of software progresses unhalted. In fact, several program packages have been written specially for vegetation analysis (Orlòci 1978, van der Maarel et al. 1981, Kuhn 1983, Wildi and Orlóci 1983, Lagonegro and Feoli 1984). They differ in purpose (analysis of big data sets versus instructional use) and usage. Kuhn (1983) strictly follows a "block bar" approach. Contrarily, the programs of Orlôci (1978) allow (or force) the user to specify methodological details. The programs presented in this paper (Wildi and Orlóci 1983) try to offer to the user as much freedom as possible in the choice of methods and options while retaining operational ease when processed on micro-computers. The programs are now further improved. Running the programs on a single-user system of moderate complexity is now a possibility. SYSTEM STRUCTURE The program package performs the analysis of one multivariate data set at a time. It proceeds in steps, performed by programs. Each program uses the information in the data set, from the user (options), and from other files containing results derived in previous steps. Stored results (classification solutions, coordinates, etc.) may come from different data sets. This allows one to analyze the relationship of vegetation</page><page sequence="3">155 records and site measurements. Fig. 1 represents the operational flow chart. The chart indicates that any new data set has to be processed first by program INIT. The arrows then define possible subsequent steps, such as the computation of resemblances, identification, ranking, clustering, component analysis, grid analysis, analysis of concentration, discriminant analysis and also some help- functions for editing and printing vegetation Fig. 1. Pathway in the analysis. Arrows indicate logically related steps.</page><page sequence="4">156 Table 1. List of the programs Name Purpose 1 I NIT initializes data files, does transformation, computes means and frequencies and stores coordinates for direct ordinations. 2 RESE computes resemblance vectors or matrices of raw data and coordinates. 3 IDEN reallocates new relevés or species to existing groups. 4 RANK ranks species based on different functions. 5 CLTR does clustering, prints dendrograms and forms groups. 6 PC AB computes component analysis (R or D type) or correspondence analysis. 7 GRID finds groups in ordinations. 8 EDIT stores classification from other programs or from the user, reduces or extends data sets. 9 ORDB prints scatter diagrams. 10 TABS prints vegetation tables, computes and prints constancy (contingency) tables. 1 1 AOCL measures success in tabular sorting, compares classifications. 1 2 DIAN performs discriminant analysis on subsets of the data. SUB contains subroutines used in all programs. tables and ordinations. Table 1 lists the programs and describes their main purpose. IMPLEMENTATION AND USAGE The version presently available operates on any MS-DOS system with the INTEL-processors 8086, 8088, 80186 or 80286. An arithmetic processor 8087 is also required. The memory addressed is either 256 or 512 KB. 300 relevés and species can be managed and up to 150 analyzed (256 KB version) in any one run of most programs, provided that the hard disk is available. Output is printout or printplot for which a dot matrix printer is most convenient. The programs are released in executable code on standard 5 1/4 inch floppy disks with 360 KB capacity. No</page><page sequence="5">157 specific implementation or adaptation is needed. When the floppy is placed in one of the drives, the program neunes act like system commands. In order to analyze a data set, the user may have to operate on three levels: - An editor or a text program level. This is needed to write the data into a standard input file (unless the test data set is used for instructional purposes). The structure of the later is described in detail in Wildi and Orlòci (1983) . - Data processing. This is done by typing the appropriate program name which indicates a run. Options are specified by answering questions in a dialogue form. - The level of systems commands. These are needed to manipulate (delete, copy, etc.) files. More details on the use of the system are given in Wildi and Orlóci (1983), where the algorithms and examples illustrate typical applications. The appearance of the output differs in some cases to further facilitate the interpretation. The package including a test data set written on 6 diskettes with detailed description is available from the author. CONCLUSION Multivariate analysis has become a standard task in vegetation research, but until recently it was only operational on mainframe computers. Introducing software of sufficient capacity for micro-computers brings about several advantages: (I) Computational costs are greatly reduced. (II) The availability of the hardware is improved. (III) It is no longer required to adapt programs to each machine individually. (IV) Program handling is easy compared to system commands on large computers.</page><page sequence="6">158 All these are rather practical improvements. (V) But considering that portable equipment can be used in the field work, data analysis may provide instantaneous feedback, allowing to adjust sampling intensity in surveys of large areas. (VI) An additional advantage would be data storage. The programs presented here do not support this, but conventional text-editors can be used instead. (VII) The options allow external information to be included into the analysis, such as published data sets. Gathering data can be partly optimized in this way instead of reducing data sets as often practiced. ACKNOWLEDGEMENT The author expresses his thanks to Dr. L. Orlòci for help and suggestions. REFERENCES Ellenberg, H. 1956. Aufgaben und Methoden der Vegetationskunde. In: Walter, H. (ed.), Einführung in die Phytologie IV, 1, 136 p. Ellenberg, H. and F. Klötzli. 1972. Waldgesellschaften und Wald- standorte der Schweiz. Eidg. Anst. forstl. Versuchswes. , Mitt. 48/4. Feoli, E., M. Lagonegro and L. Orlóci. 1984. Information Analysis of Vegetation Data. Junk, The Hague Gauch, H. G. 1977. ORDIFLEX - a flexible computer program for four ordination techniques: Weighted Averages, Polar Ordination, Principal Components Analysis, and Reciprocal Averaging, release B. Cornell University, Ithaca, N. Y. Gauch, H. G. 1979. COMPCLUS - a FORTRAN program for rapid clustering of large data sets. Cornell Univ. Ithaca, N. Y. Gauch, H. G. 1982. Multivariate Analysis in Community Ecology. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge Goodall, D. W. 1954. Objective methods for the classification of vegetation. III. An essay in the use of factor analysis. Australian Journal of Botany 2:304-324</page><page sequence="7">159 Green, R. H. 1979. Sampling Design and Statistical Methods for Environmental Biologists. Wiley, New York Greig-Smith, P. 1982. Quantitative Plant Ecology. 3rd ed. Studies in Ecology, Vol. 9, Blackwell, Oxford Groth, E. J., P. J. E. Peebles, M. Seldner and R. M. Soniera. 1977. The Clustering of Galaxies. Scientific American 237,5: 76-98 Huntley, B. , J. P. Huntley and H. J. B. Birks. 1981. PHYTOPAK, a suite of computer programs designed for the handling and analysis of phytosociological data. Vegetatio 45:85-95 Kuhn, N. 1983. VEGTAB, ein Computer-Programm als Hilfe zur tabellarischen Vegetationsgliederung. Tuexenia 3:499-522 Lagonegro, M. and E. Feoli. 1984. THREE-PAckages for classification and ordination of multivariate data. Libreria Goliardica, Trieste Lêgendre, L. et P. Lêgendre. 1979. Ecologie numerique. Tome II. La structure des donnes écologiques. Masson, Paris Maarel, van der, E. 1982. On the manipulation and editing of phytosociological and ecological data. Vegetatio 50:71-76 Mueller-Dombois, D. and H. Ellenberg. 1974. Aims and Methods of Vegetation Ecology. Wiley, New York Orlòci, L. 1978. Multivariate Analysis in Vegetation Research. Junk, The Hague Pielou, E. C. 1977. Mathematical Ecology. 2nd ed. Wiley, New York Pielou, E. C. 1984. The Interpretation of Ecological Data. Wiley, New York Van der Maarel, E., J. G. M. Janssen and J. M. W. Louppen. 1978. Tabord, a Program for Structuring Phytosociological Tables. Vegetatio 38:143-156 Wildi, 0. and L. Orlóci. 1983. Management and Multivariate Analysis of Vegetation Data. 2nd revised ed. Eidg. Anst. forstl. Versuchswes. , Ber. 215 (Received October 10, 1985)</page></plain_text>