<plain_text><page sequence="1">34O Abstract of a Meteorological Journal kept at Benares during the Years 1824, 1825, and 1826. By James Prinsep, Esq. Assay Master of the Mint at Benares. Communicated by Peter Mark Roget, M.D. Secretary of the Royal Society. Read January 25, 1828. [Phil. Trans. 1828, p. 251.] The registers, of which the monthly results are presented in a tabular form, contain an account of the states of the barometer, thermometer, the air hygrometer, the wet bulb hygrometer, the de- grees of aqueous tension, amount of evaporation, quantity of rain, wind, and other circumstances relating to, the weather at Benares during three successive years. The author states it as his opinion, that the diurnal oscillations of the barometer, as well as the monthly variations, are dependent on the alterations of the specific gravity of the air from changes in its temperature; the operations of which may be traced with much greater distinctness at Benares than in the more variable climates of Europe. He illustrates his position by graphic representations of the changes in the barometer, corresponding with those of the thermometer. He next points out a method of reducing the indications derived from hygrometers of different constructions, to absolute degrees of aqueous tension: and concludes, by expressing a hope that the cul- tivators of hygrometrical science in Europe would take pains to fur- nish standard instruments of comparison at the several principal stations on the Indian continent; as such a measure is the only secu- rity which can be obtained against inaccuracy in the observations that are now very extensively carried on in that part of the world. A Description of a verticalfloating Collimator; and an Account of its application to Astronomical Observations with a Circle and with a zenithTelescope. By Captain Henry Kater, V.P.R.S. Read April 24, and May 1, 1828. [Phil. Trans. 1828, p. 257.] The construction of the instrument which forms the subject of this paper, is a material improvement on that of the horizontal floating collimator, of which an account was given by the author in the Phi- losophical Transactions for 1825. Its superiority is derived from its adaptation to the vertical instead of the horizontal position, by which the sources of error arising from the necessity of transferring the in- strument to different sides of the observatory, and of taking the float out of the mercury and replacing it, at each observation, are wholly ob- viated. The vertical floating collimator has the further advantage of being adapted for use, not only with a circle, but also with a tele- scope, either of the refracting or reflecting kind. Such a telescope, furnished with a wire micrometer, and directed to the zenith, becomes a zenith telescope, free from all the objections to which the zenith sector, and the zenith telescope, with a plumb line, are liable. The instrument itself is supported on a square mahogany stand, which slides on two parallel beams fixed at the upper part of the ob-</page></plain_text>