<plain_text><page sequence="1">AVIAN TECH TIMES ^ ^ /^/ BOSS -- VoL 1 do you want t0 feel 11ke 8 ^a.v.*? y yDo you want t0# 1 i0. 3/v/ .be more involved in the "art" of avian ya X clinical medicine and have the support yVO / of qualified technical personnel for &gt;/ fast, reliable diagnostic tests? ; / C$ / .enhance the quality of hospital nursing care j y\&gt;5 / for your avian patients? /a**/ . see more clients? save more patients? increase j /O/ profits? j ^/.be part of a team that keeps up to date on the latest y developments in avian medicine and f surgery? j .improve job satisfaction and self esteem of your staff and j your own enjoyment of practice? i If so, send your technician to: ASSOCIATION OF AVIAN TECHNICIANS' FIRST ANNUAL MEETING June 21- 22, 1986 Mi ami, Flori da (Held in conjunction with 1986 AAV Annual Meeting) Based on members1 requests, a practical program has been developed by Loni McEntee to provide immediate benefit to an avian clinic/hospital. TENTATIVE PROGRAM Lectures: Overview of Most Common Avian Diseases (physical appearance, diagnostic changes, lab tests) Avi an Emergenci es New Diagnostic Aids Parasi tology Raptor Handling and Housing Radiology | Anesthesia j j Wet Labs: Restraint j (tube feeding, fluid therapy, sample taking) j Basic Laboratory Procedures ! (hematology, cytology, fecals) i WATCH FOR FORMS INCLUDED WITH A.A.V. REGISTRATION MATERIALS fr Real Avian Veterinarian j 77</page><page sequence="2">ATT 17 . . RESOURCES TO AID IN THE IDENTIFICATION OF AVIAN HEMATOZOA REFERENCE BOOK: Bennett. G.F., et al.: A Host-Parasite Catalogue of the Avian Haematozoa. Department of Biology, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. John's, Newfoundland, CANADA A1B 3X9. COLOR FICHE: Available through the WILDLIFE DISEASE ASSOCIATION (P.O. Box 886, Ames, Iowa 50010) for $12 each: Greiner, E.C. and Bennett, G.F.: One Color Fiche No. 66. Avian Haematozoa I. A color pictorial guide to some species of Haemoproteus , Leucocytozoan, and Trypanosoma, April 1975. Greiner, E.C, et.al.: One Color Fiche No. 68.: Avian Haematozoa II. Toxonomic keys and color pictorial guide to species of PIasmodi urn , July, 1975 . Herman, CM., et. al : One Color Fiche No. 70: Avian Haematozoa III. Color atlas of Leucocytozoan simondi, September, 1977. SUBMISSION OF BLOOD SMEARS: Dr. Gorccn Bennett, International Reference Centre for Avian Haematozoa, Department of Biology, Memorial University of Newfoundland, St. Johns, Newfoundland, CANADA A1B3X9. The. blood smears should be made thin and submitted fixed in absolute methanol, or fresh (not fixed) or follow the Giemsa stain below. Include the genus, species, identification number, country of origin and environmental history of the bird. INSTRUCTIONS FOR USE OF PRICE'S GIEMSA: E.C. Greiner/Ju1y, 1977. STOCK STAIN: BUFFER STOCK: Glycerol 200 ml Na HPO. 6 g Methanol (ABS) 325 ml KH^PO 4 5 g Giemsa powder 5 g H^v distilled 1 liter STAINING PROCEDURE: Dilute buffer stock 10 fold, i.e. 10 parts buffer stock plus 90 parts distilled water. Make this up fresh each time you stain. Add about 3 ml of stain to 100 ml of diluted buffer. This may be done by eyeballing it to make the stain distinc tly blue. Stain is added after the slides have been dried from methanol fixation. Slides should be left in stain for 45 to 60 minutes and then rinsed under a gentle flow of tap water. Air dry before storing or observing under the microscope. -- Liz Neely Baltimore Zoo ATT 18 . . POSTFIXATION FROZEN BIOPSY SPECIMENS (Excerpt from Veterinary Diagnostic News, January/February 1985) During the winter months the Biopsy Service receives a number of tissues that are frozen postfixation while enroute to the laboratory. This results in artifactual distor tion which severely compromises the tissue evaluation of both inflamma tory and neoplastic processes. This can be prevented by (1) insuring freezing does not occur or (2) mixing in 2 ml of 7 0% ethanol with each 10 ml of formalin. Mor phology will not be altered but freezing will be prevented. It is wise to consider this in Michigan as a routine procedure from November 1 through April 1, or it can be rou tinely incorporated in all prepared neutral buffered formalin and used year round. Dr. G.L. Watson Animal Health Diagnostic Laboratory Lansing, MI 78</page><page sequence="3">ATT 19 . . MONITORING THE HOSPITALIZED PATIENT Assessment of the hospitalized avian patient is an important skill for the AHT to develop. The general attitude of the bird -- relative alertness or depression -- can be observed from a non-threatening dis tance. If regurgitation is noted, any moist, undigested food material should be saved for possible analy sis. The droppings, in particular, may provide significant information by changes in the consistency, color, quantity and quality. The AHT is advised to learn to recognize the effects of various medications. For example, aminoglycoside antibiotics ATT 20 . . CLINICAL MANIFESTATIONS OF PSITTACOSIS IN MAN (NECAD &amp; MASAMS) Psittacosis is usually a spora dic disease with fewer than 100 cases being reported annually. Humans are trought to be infected primarily frough an airborne route from inhal ation of the agent in dried bird excreta, and also through handling contaminated tissues. To identify findings useful in the' diagnosis of psittacosis, the clinical and roent genograph ic characteristics of 46 cases that occurred in two outbreaks ar.ong workers in turkey processing plants were reviewed. Headache (96% of patients), chills (93% of patients), and fever '89c of patients) were the most com ncn symptoms; a nonproductive cough occurred in 65% of patients. Rales or rhonchi were detected in only six !1S:.-) of 33 patients examined, but 21 '"2*) of 29 patients receiving a crest film had roentgenographic evi dence of pneumonia. We conclude that few diagnosti "cally useful symptoms or signs occur *: n patients with psittacosis but that roentgenographically confi rmed rneu ~cnitis may occur commonly in pa tients with little clinical evidence cr pneumonitis. A history of expo sure to birds, in an individual with *lu-like illness, appears to be the single best clue to the diagnosis of : si ttacosi s . -- Joel N. Kuritsky, M.D., et.al. (Published in part in the Journal of Occupational Medi cine) (Gentocin, Amiglyde, Kantrim, Nebcin) will cause polyuria. Some oral sus pensions (Vibramycin) result in a reddish color to the droppings. Tube feeding formulas tend to produce variable fluid consistencies of the stool. The presence of melena, hema tochezia, hemoglobinuria or yellow urates as part of the droppings must be noted. Melena, due to upper gas trointestinal tract bleeding, is man ifested by black tarry stool. Hema tochezia is the presence of frank blood in the stool, usually due to lower intestinal or cloacal hemorr hage. Hemoglobinuria, evidenced by red-pink urine/urates, is most often associated with lead toxicity. Yel low urates often related to liver pathology. -- Alan M. Fudge, DVM Citrus Heights, CA ATT 21 . . PSITTACOSIS AND THE PET SHOP (NECAD &amp; MASAMS) The Centers for Disease Control and the Minnesota Department of Health conducted a study of pet shops to determine the extent of psittaco sis in both the avian population and employees. Health and avian-exposure histories were obtained from 79 em ployees in the 16 pet shops which participated in the study. The magnitude of the occupa tional hazard experienced by employ ees of the pet-bird trade in Minne apolis/St.Paul can be estimated by two observations made during the investigation. The first observation is that the presence of C. psi ttaci was documented in 2 5% oT the pet shops sampled one time during one week of investigation. Most of the birds cultured, including the groups of birds containing the positive specimens, were clinically normal and were ready for sale when their drop pings were collected. The second observation was that 43" of the em ployees who submitted blood specimens for serologic analysis had CF titers of 1:16 against the chlamydial group antigen. -- Michael M. Pullen, DVM Uni vers i ty of Minnesota 79</page><page sequence="4">ATT 22 . . FECAL EXAMINATIONS (AAZV) Fecal examinations are essential for preventative screening and for evaluating the compromised bird. The method of choice is the direct exam, using very fresh feces, saline, and a coverslip over a slide. A direct smear is frequently helpful in asses sing for motility, shape and relative amounts of bacteria, yeast, type of food material, undigested starch, fat globules, parasitic ova, flagellates, leukocytes, and erythrocytes. The technician must become accustomed to the appearance of urates, plant mat erial, feather particles, and debris. The same direct smear can subsequent ly be gram-stained for bacteria and yeast. Significant numbers of gram negative bacterial indicates the need for a culture/sensitivity. The fin ding of leukocytes in a direct saline fecal smear can be often associated with a clinical diagnosis of chlamyd iosis. -- Alan M. Fudge, DVM Citrus Heights, CA ATT 23 . . INEXPENSIVE DIGITAL GRAM SCALE The Tanita Electronic Digital Read-out Scale is a relatively inexpensive (under $100), accurate, space-saving scale for weighing birds up to 1000 grams. If a weighing device is used, the read-out can be adjusted back to zero prior to inserting the bird in the device. The read-out can also be changed to ounces. Made by American Family Scale Co., Inc. of Chicago, the scale is available through Inglebrook Forges, 194 Eastern Ave., Pasadena, CA 91107 (213) 681-9785. -- Rhonda K. Sayle, AHT Lake Worth, FL ATT 24 . . QUALITY C0NTRCL OF GRAM'S ATT 25 . . TUBE FEEDING TIPS (AFA) STAINS I place every sample for Gram's stain on a Q-check System Slide (Scott Laboratories, Inc., Fiske ville, RI 02823- Cat. No. 4500-1000) as a control. The Gram Check slide contains one block heat-fixed with a gram-positive control: Staphylococcus saprophyticus; one bloc! heat-fixed with a gram-negative control: Esche richia coli; and 6 blank blocks for placing the unknown samples. After the staining procedure, the control chambers are checked first to deter mine if the quality of the Gram's stain and/or application technique are satisfactory. The positive con trol should reveal a purplish-blue cocci in clusters (gram-positive) and the negative control should show red rods (gram-negative). Then the re sults of the unknown samples can be read with reliability. - - John P i s a n i Mi crim Labs, Mi ami , FL The formula I use for tube fee ding consists of an infant feeding formula (I use Soyalac concentrate, 13 fl oz) plus 6 ounces by volume of Gerbers High Protein Baby Cereal (without fruit, so the fruit doesn't plug the tubes), to which I add 2 tsp. of Super Preen powder. I mix it all together in a blender and then suck it into 7 catheter-tip 60 cc syringes. I store the food-filled syringes in a container in the re frigerator, labeled with the date it was prepared. When I'm ready to tube a bird, I fill an appropriately sized syringe from my catheter-tip syringe and then place the filled syringe in hot water to warm it up. It is eas ier to fill one syringe from another syringe, then to try to suck up cold formula from a bowl. After 5 days, I prepare a fresh batch. -- Chuck Galvin, DVM Novato, CA CONTINUING EDUCATION FOR AVIAN TECHNICIANS EASTERN STATES VETERINARY CONFERENCE Veterinary Technician Program, January 14-16, 1986. "Providing Good Avian Hospital Care" by M.T. Walsh is scheduled for Thursday, January 16. For full program contact: Eastern States Veterinary Association, 4300 N.W. 23rd Avenue, Suite 7, Gainesville, FL 32606. 80</page></plain_text>