<plain_text><page sequence="1">REVIEWED Egg Binding in a Budgerigar (Melopsittacus undu/atus) Caused by a Cyst of the Right Oviduct Manfred Hochleithner, Tzt. Christine Lechner, Dr. med. vet. Summary A congenital abnormality, characterized by two fully formed oviducts, is described in a budgerigar. The right oviduct was filled with gelatinous fluid which formed a space-occupying cyst, resulting in egg binding in the left salpinx. Clinical signs and subsequent surgical intervention are discussed. F JLrfgg binding is a common problem in pet birds and may be related to a number of causes, including genetic predisposi- tion, malnutrition, inexperience of hen, atony of uterus, ex- traordinary size of egg, tumor of the oviduct or other fac- tors.1 In this case, the right oviduct was fully developed and filled with gelatinous fluid, forming a huge cyst which dis- placed the normal position of the functional left oviduct, resulting in egg binding. Although the rudimentary right oviduct often becomes cystic in older domestic fowl,2-3 this condition is not common in pet birds. HISTORY AND CLINICAL SIGNS A three-year-old female budgerigar ( Melopsittacus un- dulatus) was presented to the University of Vienna Depart- ment of Poultry Diseases Hospital. According to the owner, the bird was exhibiting signs of constipation, and its abdomen had been swollen for the past five days. The physical examina- tion revealed a depressed, fluffed-up, underweight (35 g) bird with slight atrophy of the pectoral muscle. The droppings in the cage were voluminous and slightly moist. Upon palpa- tion of the distended abdomen, an egg was identified along with another mass that was undetermined (Fig. 1). Because of its debilitated condition, the bird was treated with 2 cc lactated Ringer's solution subcutaneously and vitamins ADEC and piperacillin (100 mg /kg), intramuscular- ly.3-4 Surgery was immediately scheduled. SURGICAL PROCEDURE^ Because isoflurane was not available at the time of this in- cident, a combination of ketamine (25 mg/kg) and xylazine (12 mg/kg) was used for general anesthesia. A lateral laparotomy approach was used. The left leg was extended cranially as far as possible and an incision was made through the skin from the pubic bone to the last rib. The abdominal musculature was elevated from the intra- abdominal mass and incised. The egg-filled left oviduct could be seen immediately and was elevated into the surgical site. To perform a hysterectomy, the ligaments of the oviduct and I. Medizinische Universitätsklinik, Veterinary Medicine, Department of Poultry Diseases, University of Vienna, Austria. 136 AAV TODAY</page><page sequence="2">Fig. 1. Swollen abdomen of budgerigar caused by egg binding and cyst of the right oviduct. Fig. 2. Surgical exposure of cyst of the right oviduct. Fig. 3. The gelatinous fluid is removed prior to hysterectomy of right oviduct. VOL.2 NO. 3 1988 137</page><page sequence="3">Fig. 4. Gelatinous fluid removed from the cyst of the right oviduct. Egg Binding the infundibulum were dissected bluntly, and a single ligature was placed on the uterus near the cloaca with 4-0 catgut. The extracted egg measured 12 mm x 8 mm. Following removal of the left oviduct, the abdomen re- mained enlarged and the exploratory procedure continued. A walnut-sized cyst (Fig. 2) filled with gelatinous fluid (Fig. 3) was located primarily in the right side of the abdomen. After the fluid was removed with a 2 ml syringe (Fig. 4), the cyst was followed to the cloaca and identified as the right oviduct. A hysterectomy of the right oviduct was performed as described above, with blunt dissection of the ligaments and a single ligature placed near the cloaca. Prior to closure, 2 ml lactated Ringer's solution was administered intravenous- ly. The abdomen was closed in two layers with 4-0 Ethicon. The bird recovered from the anesthesia without incident and was back to normal the following day. Piperacillin was continued for an additional five days following surgery. The sutures were removed in seven days, and three weeks later the bird was released back into an aviary. DISCUSSION Birds have both a right and left ovary during embryonic development; however, during incubation the right ovary becomes vestigial, and the left ovary continues to grow and become functional.2-9 The avian oviduct develops normally only on the left side of the body.2 The unpaired oviduct, uterus and vagina vary considerably in size during the breeding cycle. In the reproductively active female, the isthmus becomes very large, displacing the abdominal viscera to the right.9 In the case described here, the cyst develop- ment on the congenitally abnormal right oviduct displaced the viscera contralateral^, interfering with the normal pro- gression of the egg through the left oviduct. REFERENCES 1 . HARRISON GJ : Reproductive medicine. In Harrison GJ, Harrison LR (eds): Clinical Avian Medicine and Surgery. Philadelphia, WB Saunders CO, 1986, pp 625-626. 2. RINGER RK: Selected physiology for the avian practitioner. In Har- rison GJ, Harrison LR (eds): Clinical Avian Medicine and Surgery. Philadelphia, WB Saunders Co, 1986, pp 78- 80. 3 . GYLSDORF I, GRIMM F: Vogelkrankheiten. Eugen Ulmer Verlag Stut- tgart, 1987. 4. HOCHLEITHNER M, GEORGOPOULOS A: Experiences with piperacillin in psittaciforms. 6 Tagung Uber Vogelkrankheiten, Munich 3-4 March, 1988. 5. ROSSKOPF W: Personal communication, 1987. 6. GRIMM F: Personal communication, 1985. 7. HARRISON GJ, DOYLE J: Proceedings Avian Microsurgical Seminar. Research Institute for Avian Medicine, Nutrition and Reproduction, 1987. 8. HARRISON GJ: Selected surgical procedures. In Harrison GJ, Har- rison LR (eds): Clinical Avian Medicine and Surgery, Philadelphia, WB Saunders Co, 1986, pp 592-593. 9. MCKIBBEN J, HARRISON GJ: Clinical anatomy. In Harrison GJ, Har- rison LR (eds): Clinical Avian Medicine and Surgery, Philadelphia, WB Saunders Co, 1986, pp 59-</page></plain_text>