<plain_text><page sequence="1">11l On the Action of Crystallized Surfaces upon Light. -By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. Lond. and Edinb. In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. -c. 8fc. Read February 25, 1819. [Phil. Trans. 1819, p. 145.] It has been remarked by MIalus, that the action which the first surface of Iceland spar exercises upon light, is independent of the position of its principal section; that its reflecting power extends beyond the limits of the polarizing forces of the crystal: and that as light is only polarized by penetrating the surface, the forces which produce extraordinary refraction begin to act only at this limit. He also remarks, that the angle of incidence at which this spar polarizes light by partial reflection is 560 30'; and that, what- ever be the angle comprehended between the plane of incidence and the principal section of the crystal, the ray reflected by the first sur- face is always polarized in the same manner. Dr. Brewster's experiments detailed in this paper lead him to oppo- site conclusions, and indicate an extension of the polarizing forces beyond the crystals. He also shows that the force of double refrac- tion and polarization emanates from the surface of bodies, though its intensity depends upon the inclination of the surface to the axis of the crystal; and that the ordinary or extraordinary image may be extinguished at pleasure in any doubly-refracting crystal, which is thus converted into a singly-refracting crystal; that the change in the angle of polarization, produced by the interior force, depends on the inclination of the reflecting surface to the axis of the crystal, and upon the azimuthal angle, which the plane of reflection forms with the principal section; and that the change in the direction of the polarization depends upon the angle which the incident ray forms with the axis of the crystal. On the Specific Gravity and Temperature of Sea-Waters, in diferent Parts of the Ocean, and in particular Seas; with some Account of their Saline Contents. By Alexander Marcet, M.D. F.R.S. 8c. Read May 20, 1819. [Phil. Trans. 1819, p. 161.] After some preliminary remarks upon the labours of others in this department of inquiry, Dr. Marcet proceeds to the immediate objects of his own investigation, which were to ascertain the specific gravity of many specimens of sea-water from different parts, and afterwards to examine their saline contents. The results relating to the first of these objects are prefaced by an account of the mode of taking the specific gravities, and of the instrument by which the water was raised, and of which two plates are annexed. The author then pro- ceeds to the inferences deducible from his experiments, which, for the sake of conciseness, are given in the form of tables; whence it appears that the ocean in the Southern hemisphere is rather more salt than in the Northern, in the proportion of 1029-19 to 1027-57. 'The mean specific gravity of specimens from various parts of the</page><page sequence="2">112 equator, is 1027 77, and therefore a little exceeds that prevalent in the Northern hemisphere, while it is decidedly less than that of the Southern Ocean. There is no material difference between different east and west longitudes at the equator, nor in the same hemisphere. In general, the salt seems most abundant in the deepest water, and in that furthest from land; the vicinity of ice also diminishes the saltness: if therefore this quality should increase in approaching the pole, it may be considered as militating against the probability of the ocean being extensively frozen in those regions. In general, small inland seas, communicating with the ocean, are less salt than the ocean itself. The waters of the Mediterranean, however, are more saline, and in attempting to account for this circumstance, the au- thor's attention is directed to the relative densities of water from dif- ferent depths of the ocean; and though in some cases it appeared lightest at the surface, such a result was generally referable to the vicinity of thawing ice, for, in ordinary circumstances, the density at great depths in no instance exceeded the mean density of the waters of the ocean. In regard, however, to different seas or arms of the ocean, the case is often different, in consequence of local circum- stances. At the entrance of the Dardanelles, for instance, the dif- ference between the upper and lower strata is as 1020 to 1028. Dr. Marcet next details some researches upon the congelation of sea-water which takes place at 28?, and when slowly effected, is always attended by the total separation of the salt, which forms a strong brine that is washed away by the neighbouring water. The different specimens of water obtained from the ice in the late Northern Expedition, varied very little in specific gravity; the water was sweet, and in many instances its specific gravity did not exceed that of dis- tilled water. The second section of the author's paper relates to the saline con- tents of different seas. In his experimental inquiries connected with this subject, his objects were to ascertain the quantity of saline matter in a known weight of the water, and to compare it with the specific gravity: to precipitate the muriatic acid from a known weight of the water by nitrate of silver; the sulphuric acid by nitrate of ba- rytes; the lime by oxalate of ammonia; and the magnesia, from the clear liquor remaining after the separation of the lime, by phosphate and carbonate of ammonia. The soda is inferred from calculation. The details of these experiments are thrown into a tabular form; whence it appears that sea-water, however different in specific gra- vity, contains the same ingredients all over the world, and that these bear nearly the same proportions to each other; the difference in specific gravity is therefore dependent upon the whole quantity of saline matter which they contain. The author concludes this com- munication by announcing the discovery of traces of potash in sea- water by Dr. Wollaston. Hie detected it by the addition of muriate of platina to the water, after evaporation to about one twentieth part.</page></plain_text>