<plain_text><page sequence="1">86 means of a small thermometer attached to the magnet, the stem of which is parallel to the. axis of the bare In this thermometer; the size of the bulb, its distance from the freezing-point and length of the scale, may be so proportioned to each other, that the second as well as the first term of the temperature coefficient will be re.pre seated in the correction. 8* " On the Reproduction of the 4Asearis- Mystax-" By Henry Nelson, M.D, Communicated by Allen Thomson, M.D., F.R*S. Received May 22, 1851. The author commences with a brief anatomical description of the Ascaris JIystax, found in the intestinal canal of the Doinestic Cat; with more especial reference to the organs of generation in the two sexes. He traces the gradual formation of the semen; originally thrown off as seminal particles by the ceecal extremity of the tubular testicle, the exterior of each solid particle enlarges to constitute a cell, while the interior retains its consistency and iforms a nucleus. The cell then acquires a granular protecting envelope, and in this state is introduced into the female. The solution of the protective envelope and the great enlargement of the seminal cell follow, and its nucleus is now seen to present a granular structure. The exter. nal granules of the nucleus coalesce to form a membrane, at first exactly resembling a watch-glass in shape, but by the contraction of its margin ultimately forming a curved caecal tube. This is the true spermatic particle or spermatozoon, and is set fr:ee :by the rupture of the seminal. cell. The generative apparatus of the female, commeneing also in c meal extremities, is next treated of, and the author draws particular atten- tion to a transparent, narrow contractile portion, the oviduct, inter- vening between the ovary and uterus, as the part in which the ovule encounters the spermatic particles, and is by them fecundated. The caecal end of the vary likewise throws off a solid partiele xhich enlarging forms a germinal vesicle and spoti As the ger- in-al vesicle travels slowly down the tubular ovary, it acquires a thick granular investment or yolk, secreted: by the ovartan walls. The ovules now present a. flattened triangular shape5 are placed side by side, and form one solid mass. At the commencement, .of the oviduct however they beconme detached, separated from each other, and propelled singly along its interior. Here the geltinous ovule meets the tubular spermati particles, and is surrounded on aII sides by them. They are at first seen to be merely applied against the ovule, but by degrees the margin of the latter presents a rupture, some of the vitelline granules are displaced, and the spermatic par. tilees become imbedded in the substance of the yolk itself. While the penetration of the spermatic particlesl is going on, a chorion, secreted by the oviduct, surrounds the ovule, forming a spherical envelope, within which the germinal vesicle, the granular yolk, and the imbedded spermatozoa, are enclosed. The spermatie particles afer penetration are seen to swell, become transparents and ultimately to dissolve. The vitelline granules likewise eitherdisap-</page><page sequence="2">87 pear altogether, or are transformed into others of a different colour; and, lastly, the germinal vesicle is destroyed. By tracing the changes of the ovule in unfecundated females of the same species, the apthor finds the disappearance of the Yitelline granules to be dependent upon, while the formation of the chorion is wholly independent of, the influence exerted by the spermatic patticles on the ovle. As soon as the vitelline granules and germinal vesicle have dis- appeared, the whole interior of the chorion is flled with a clear fluid, in which a few granules and the germinal spot are seen to remain. By swelling up this constitutes the embryonic vesicle and spot. A membrane separates from the interior of *ie chorion, and contracting on the granules forms a spherical yolk, in the centre of which is the embryonic vesicle. This is the perfect ovum. The subsequent di- visions of the embryonic spot, vesicle and yolk are described; the author particularly pointing out the, gyrations of the embryonic ve- sicle immediately after division. As soon as the whole interior of the egg has been filled by the subdivisions of the yolk, the external granules coalesce and form a continuous membrane internal to the chorion, which by gradual depression on one of its sides forms first a fleshy cup, and then, as the membrane of its concavity touches that of its convex surface, acquires the form of a ring. The ring divides atsomne point of its circumference, the extremities become pointed, and thus the young Ascaris receives its characteristic shape. The author has frequently repeated his observations with a view to their verification, and has employed the camera lucida to render the illus- trative figures as accurate as possible. 9. " On Induced and other Magnetic Forces." By Sir W. Snow Harist F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 29, 1851. The question as to identity: in the source of those several and mnystenrius powers of.nature by which masses or particles are moved either toward, or froim each other, being a question of deep physical interest, the autl.or of this paper has been led to some further in- vestigation of the nature and laws of magnetic force,.in the course of which several -new facts have. presented thenmselves which he thiinks not altogether unwortly of attention. Magnetic attraction as commonly observed being found to depend on certain impressions made on the attracting bodies usually de- signated by the general term induction, it appears essential to the progress of any inquiry into the lawns of those forces operating ex- ternally to a magnet through space, t commence with a rigid exa- mination of the natuire and mode of actilon of those inductive forces tapon which the reciprocal force of attraction between the bodies immediately depends, Thb'se forces of indtction may be considered as a series of successive or reverberating, operatin be- tween the near and opposed surfaces of the magi etie bodie. When, for example, a iagnet is opposed to a mass of soft iron, a direct impression is first made on the iron byv which the iron is rendered temlporarilty magetic; this induced force operates in its turn by a</page></plain_text>