<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 22:29-35, 1998 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest Distance distribution between patch systems: a new method to analyse community mosaics G. Fekete1 &amp; Z. Fekete2 1 Institute of Ecology and Botany of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences, H-2163, Vácrátót, Email: h6868fek@ella.hu 2 Centre of Information Systems, Technical University of Budapest, Email: feketez @ goliat, elk. bme. hu Keywords: Interaction between communities, Landscape ecology, Patch boundary , Patch pattern, Sand grasslands, Vegetation map. Abstract: Adjacent patches of different community types interact with each other via the efflux of individuals of component populations, influenced by the size, shape, arrangement and distance of patches. In a spatial micromosaic of two vegetation types, it is reasonable to assume that the intensity of interactions is proportional to the distances between patches (more precisely, to the distribution of distances). In this paper, a special type of distance distribution functions (DDF) is introduced to predict potential interactions between two communities. Each community is characterised by two functions (i.e., comm. A -» comm. B and comm. B -&gt;comm. A). The applicability of the new function is presented in the evaluation of a vegetation map. Introduction Vegetation scientists, including those in favour of the discontinuity theory, are aware that patches of dif- ferent vegetation types interact through the emigration of populations. Exchange of propagules between stands of the same community type is important in the maintenance of within-community biodiversity. Ecol- ogical corridors, which are receiving increasing atten- tion in nature protection, can provide routes for this exchange. Fragmentation of formerly uniform vegeta- tion patches is experienced by component populations as the loss of connectivity, although at different threshold levels (Green 1994, With &amp; Crist 1995). Using simulation models, Gustafson &amp; Gardner (1996) showed that dispersal success can be accounted for by difference in the size and distance of favourable habitat patches. Inhomogeneity is an inherent feature of vegetation, manifested at large scale such that each community type is represented by one or more patches. Ample evidence exists for interactions between patches of dif- ferent community types. For example, one possible danger of vegetation fragmentation is the increased probability of the (often destructive) impact of one community type on the other. The perimeter/area ratio becomes higher with stand fragmentation, and ul- timately small 'islands' are produced. Colonisation from the surrounding matrix (e.g., segetal weed as- semblages) is much more successful in fragmented than in continuous stands (Saunders et al. 1990, Mur- cia 1995). A spectacular extreme case of patch interac- tion is the formation of mosaic complexes (Dierschke 1994), where spatially repetitive mosaics of two or more adjacent community types representing similar habitats appear. The interaction (i.e., exchange of species) between patches is so strong that their boun- daries can hardly be distinguished. A good example from the forest-steppe zone of SE Europe is the mosaic of rock grasslands, white oak scrub woodlands and dicot-rich fringe communities (Jakucs 1972). Of course, not all neighbourhood situations involve in- teractions. When a very steep ecological gradient produces sharp patch boundaries (e.g., at the meso-</page><page sequence="2">30 Fekete &amp; Fekete: Patch distance distributions philous woodland - marsh meadow interface), the im- pact of community types on each other is probably negligible. Between-patch interactions are difficult to study directly, as any experimental approach seems to be inapplicable. Most of these problems fall into the scope of landscape ecology. The vegetation landscape (Zonneveld 1990) is heterogeneous, its structure is determined by the size, number, shape and configuration of the patches of different communities. Landscape function is then determined by the interactions and fluxes between the spatial components. For the vegetation itself, the ex- change of populations is one of the most important in- teractions. Numerous indices have been developed by landscape ecologists to describe and evaluate land- scape structure and spatial pattern (Turner 1989, Cale &amp; Hobbs 1994, Forman 1995, etc.). The structural school of landscape ecology focuses mainly on the spatial relationships depicted by vegeta- tion maps. This paper introduces a new approach by which complex spatial mosaics can be described rela- tively easily by considering pairs of vegetation types. The discussion intends to be thought-provoking. The desired influence on vegetation scientists is achieved if it stimulates debates and the proposed methodology is developed further, incorporating population dyn- amical aspects. Methods Potential objects for the proposed approach are fine resolution vegetation maps showing two or more vegetation types (occasionally referred to as 'colours'). The assumption of interactions between patches is pertinent if the communities they represent are not very different coenologically. This is true for most community types analysed below. In a mosaic of two colours, it appears to be a realistic assumption that the intensity of between-patch interac- tions is proportional to patch distances, more precisely, to the distribution of distances. This paper provides a method to derive and describe such distance distribu- tions , whereas the biological mechanisms of the un- derlying interactions are not considered here. The new distance distribution function Two colours (say, black and white) are chosen from the multi-coloured map. In the following discussion, colours represent phy tocoenoses (community types) in the traditional sense. Let us assume that an invasive species grows in the 'black' patches, which is capable of colonising the 'white' plots as well. The main ques- tion is whether general predictions can be made based merely on the spatial arrangement of patches, and if so, how. It seems to be realistic to suppose that individuals nearest to the 'white' plots have the highest probability to shed propagules into them. Thus, distances will be measured from the boundaries of 'black' patches closest to 'white' plots. For the 'white' patches, however, every point - not only the edges - has to be considered. This implies that propagules arriving from 'black' plots are to colonise all (both nearby and dis- tant) points in 'white' patches. Therefore the distance distribution function (DDF) is the probability density function of the distance (as a random variable ) of an arbitrary point within the * attacked ' mosaic from the nearest point in the ' source ' patch pattern. Since it is a probability density function its in- tegral is 1. Note that the distance measure used was the Euclidean distance. Now let us choose points with random co-ordinates in 'white' patches in a uniform distribution, and calculate their distances from the nearest 'black' points. Repeat- ing this procedure many times we can create a frequen- cy histogram for distance classes. The histogram will adequately approximate the DDF defined above. Im- plicitly, it is assumed in the model that individuals of the source population are present at each point of the boundaries of the 'black' patches. An alternative way (our way) to approximate the function is achieved by a sufficiently fine grid laid over the spatial mosaic. Dis- tances are calculated between each 'white' point crossed by the grid and the nearest grid-intersected marginal 'black' point. The potential impact of 'black' patches (more properly, the coloniser population within them) on 'white' plots can be assessed from the distribution of distances. A DDF is considered favourable when the frequency of short distances is relatively high. Before turning to real situations, the method will be demonstrated on several plain artificial mosaics. Figure 1 presents one of the simplest vegetation map for two communities. Let us take narrow bands of equal area in the white plot parallel to the plot edge, and calculate the distances from the points of these bands to the black-white boundary. Obviously, these distances are roughly the same for each point within a band. Approximating the DDF with a histogram il- lustrates that the bars will be equally high in each dis- tance category because the white bands are equally sized (Fig. 1 a). Arranging the picture in a different way (Fig. lb), the function will change, since e.g., the total</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 22 ( 1 998) 3 1 area of white strips in contact with black plots will be about twice as much as before. A sufficiently fine scale chessboard pattern will produce a curve with high fre- quencies in the domain of small distances (Fig. lc). Obviously, the distribution of distances from the mar- ginal points of white patches to any point in the black plots will be the same. DDFs for the two mosaics cal- culated reciprocally are identical, for example, if the two patterns are mirror images. Omitting a single patch can substantially alter the DDF. This is shown in Fig. 2 where by leaving out a tiny hatched patch the curve shape for the 'source' hatched mosaic changed and frequencies shifted into the domain of higher distances. It is a reasonable assumption that in source patches not only the marginal points serve with propagules for the colonisation, but a wider edge takes part in this, where the edge width depends on the dispersal characteristics Figure 1. Distance distribution functions (DDFs) for artifi- cial examples. Figure 2. The effect of omitting a single small patch, a: original map, b: DDFs describing the patchwork in a. Con- tinuous line: distances from the border of dotted patches to the hatched areas. Dashed line: from the border of hatched patches to the dotted areas, c: DDFs obtained with omitting the small hatched patch in the bottom left corner.</page><page sequence="4">32 Fekete &amp; Fekete: Patch distance distributions of the given population. To consider this, our model is modified in the following way. Consecutive prop- agule-emitting layers are defined within the 'source' patch as moving inward from the patch boundary. For each layer, the DDF is calculated and using weights decreasing inward - an average function is calculated. Here an area reduction method was introduced, using a morphological procedure called 'etching'. It is easy to see that such modification of the model always produces a less favourable DDF for the source mosaic as the frequency (the probability) of larger distances increases. By the procedure of etching the greater potential of larger source patches will be expressed. As a smaller patch becomes eliminated, the curve may alter significantly (see Fig. 2). Note that smoothing by 'moving averages' was used in the functions to eliminate inaccuracies in calculations caused by the raster-based plotting. This procedure did not influence the effect of even the smallest patch on the shape of thè function shown. A case study The application of the DDF is demonstrated using an actual vegetation map (Fig. 3). The map shows the vegetation of a cca. two-hectare area in the forest- steppe zone in a sand-covered landscape between the Danube and Tisza rivers in Hungary. The site is lo- cated 45 km SE of Budapest, near the village Csévharaszt. As a basis for vegetation mapping, a fine resolution colour aerial photo was taken. At a mag- nification of 1:600 even the smallest juniper or Crataegus bushes could be identified. The mapped communities include oak woodland fragments, poplar- juniper steppe- woodland patches, Crataegus monogyna thickets (taken as one unit), open ( Festuca vaginata dominated) and closed ( Festuca wagneri dominated) grasslands (Simon &amp; Mészáros-Dras- kovits 1972). At the edge of forests and thickets, a loose assemblage of species typical of xerothermic, more or less closed grasslands appear with Poa angus- tifolia as the dominant species. (For the sake of simplicity, these plants will be referred to as steppe Figure 3. Vegetation map of the study area. 1. Poa angustifolia steppe grassland, 2. Festuca vaginata open perennial sand grassland, 3. Festuca vaginata open perennial sand grassland with some steppe species, 4. Festuca wagneri sward with several species of the open perennial sand grassland, 5. Festuca wagneri steppe grassland, 6. Woodland (at the edges of the map), shrubs, trees. Mapped by G. Fekete, A. Kun and Zs. Moinar.</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 22 ( 1 998) 33 meadow species in the sequel.) The map shows a characteristic forest-steppe micromosaic with two contrasting grassland types, i.e., semidesert-like open sand grasslands and more or less closed, Festuca wag - neri and Poa angustifolia grasslands of dry steppe- meadow character. Based on 30 phytocoenological releves taken during the mapping of vegetation and then allocated on the map, further transitional vegeta- tion types were distinguished. This was necessary, be- cause steppe-meadow species occurred not only in the Poa angustifolia dominated fringe community and in closed Festuca wagneri swards, but occasionally and subordinately in the Festuca vaginata grassland as well, where habitat properties were locally favourable. Likewise, certain Festuca wagneri dominated patches were unusually poor in species and resembled the open sand grassland. These transitional types reflect that the two species groups (i.e., those of steppe meadows and sand semideserts) with different geographical distribu- tion, life form, and temperature- and water require- ments segregate incompletely in the two Festuca grassland types, and patch boundaries are mutually pervious to both groups. In a vegetation mosaic like this, it is probable that the spatial arrangement of patches and neighbourhood relations have substantial influence on composition. Thus, DDFs for the mosaic of several community pairs are analysed. Our purpose is to compare the steppe- meadow-like and open sand grassland coenoses. Having several units, this comparison can be done in multiple ways, and the subsequent interpretation may also be different. For example, the dominant species is different for marginal steppe meadows {Poa angus- tifolia) and for Festuca wagneri grasslands, and cer- tain xeromesophilous forest-steppe species turn up in the former community, but are absent from the latter. The Poa angustifolia fringe steppe-meadow and the Festuca vaginata open perennial grassland appear to cover nearly equal areas on the map. The latter com- munity, however, occurs in large patches while the former one is distributed more evenly throughout the area. Thus, sand grassland patches are more easily colonised from fringe steppe-meadows. Occasionally fringe steppe-meadows turn up remotely in 30-50 m distance from a sand grassland patch, thus being dif- ficult to reach by plant propagules of the latter com- munity. As DDFs suggest, the expected interaction of the two communities is not symmetrical (Fig. 4a). Note that unit 3 on the map can be considered as an open sand grassland which has already been colonised by some steppe-meadow species. The results obtained by the area reduction procedure are also shown for this example. Figure 4a presents the DDF calculated by considering original boundaries only (no area reduction), Fig. 4b shows the DDF when an 'etching' in 2 m depth was applied, while on Fig. 4c the average of 9 DDFs - taken at every quarter meter from the patch margin to a 2 m depth - is displayed. For the averaging, weights decreasing inward were ap- plied. As expected, this method produced less favour- able curves, although the changes were different (Fig. 4c). The 1- »2 function (calculating distances from the border of community 1 to the area of community 2) be- came weaker because community 1 is much more frag- mented than community 2 (see Fig. 3). Note that linearly declining weights were chosen for the sake of simplicity only, and in real situations certainly dif- ferent weights - based on the dispersal properties of the given population - should be applied. Figure 4. DDFs for the Poa angustifolia steppe grassland (1) and for the Festuca vaginata open perennial grassland (2). Continuous line: from the border of (1) to the area of (2), 1 - » 2. Dashed line: 2 -» 1 . a: DDF without area reduc- tion. b: DDF after a 2 m deep area reduction, c: layered DDF, DDFs averaged for a 2 m wide strip.</page><page sequence="6">34 Fekete &amp; Fekete: Patch distance distributions Figuře 5. DDFs for the Festuca vaginata open perennial grassland (2) and Festuca wagneri communities (4+5). Continuous line: (4+5) - &gt; 2, dashed line: 2 - &gt; (4+5). Figure 6. DDFs of Festuca vaginata dominated (2+3) and Festuca wagneri dominated (4+5) communities. Con- tinuous line: (4+5) -&gt; (2+3), dashed line: (2+3) - » (4+5). Figure 7. DDFs of open, Festuca vaginata dominated (2+3) and closed, steppe type communities (1+4+5). Continuous line: (1+4+5) (2+3). Dashed line: (2+3) (1+4+5). In Fig. 5 the open sand grassland is compared with Festuca wagneri grasslands (no distinction is made here between the two subtypes of the latter). Accord- ing to this, within short (4-5 m) distances the Festuca wagneri community may have a more substantial im- pact on the open sand grassland (more precisely on Festuca vaginata patches free from steppe-meadow species), than vice versa. Considering the second max- ima at distances of 10-20 m, however, an opposite situation is observed when open sand grassland propagules may reach Festuca wagneri grasslands more easily than vice versa. In the combined mosaic of Festuca vaginata dominated (2+3) and Festuca wagneri dominated (4+5) patches (Fig. 6) the 'colours' adequately match the local distribution maps for Festuca vaginata and Festuca wagneri , respectively. The more favourable status of F. vaginata is obvious and needs no further explanation. Based on Figs. 5-6 it can be concluded that F. vaginata is favoured for the whole area, al- though several open sand grassland patches may turn into F. wagneri swards locally (see Fig. 5). Figure 7 presents overall DDFs calculated by con- sidering all five grassland types. Our purpose was to compare the two F. vaginata dominated types with the other three, more closed grasslands sharing several fre- quent and collectively distinctive steppe-meadow species. The two functions are quite similar. Discussion The approach applied here is different from the descriptions of spatial mosaics normally used by landscape ecologists. The main difference, and also the very heart of the new method, is that instead of a morphological description of the patch pattern of a single vegetation unit, it aims at revealing possible relationships between two patch patterns at a time. The result is a function rather than an index value. In landscape ecology, different indices are used for the description of the size, perimeter, shape etc. of the patches and their variability. The new method intro- duced here is capable of treating all these properties in a single function. Furthermore, the distance of in- dividual patches of the same type (c.f. 'proximity' defined by Gustafson &amp; Parker 1992, 1994) may in- fluence the course of the DDF as well as the extent to which various patch types are equally adjacent to each other (i.e., interspersion, see McGarigal &amp; Marks 1995). Note that there are also other means of measuring the relationships between the spatial distribution of patches. Techniques for describing the dispersion pat- tern and the nearest neighbour relationship for circles were proposed by Simberloff (1979) and Cox (1987). The radial distribution function (Glass &amp; Tobler 1971) expresses the relative positions of circles on a plane. Krishna &amp; Iyer (1949) looked at adjacency relation- ships for p colours on an n-dimensional lattice. Stoyan &amp; Ohser (1982) elaborated methods for expressing correlation between two or more sets of planar geometric objects. The procedure suggested in our study differs from these methods and from others not mentioned here at least in one respect. This fundamen- tal difference is that the relationships for two patch systems is described in terms of two functions.</page><page sequence="7">Abstracta Botanica 22 ( 1 998) 35 What is the use of these functions? On the one hand, they can be used for the characterisation of vegetation landscapes. The patches of vegetation landscape ele- ments (i.e., communities) may be abundant or rare, large or small depending on the nature of the landscape. It is also likely that the mutual spatial pat- tern (configuration, system of contacts, etc.) of com- munity pairs is also governed by the landscape itself. Thus, further tests using repeated samples are needed to clarify if these functions are able to describe land- scape-specific patch pattern configurations reliably (even statistically). The functions express a certain potential. If the curve A- »B is indicating high values for low distances, the situation appears to be favourable for community A. If the curve of B- »A is flatter and wider compared with A- &gt;B, then the chance of emitting propagules of populations from community A into patches of com- munity B is higher than vice versa. In this paper, we do not intend to suggest mathematical methods for com- paring two DDFs. Comparing the means of the DDFs could be useful in some cases but it is not satisfactory. Anyway, DDFs help to formulate hypotheses on future colonisation by populations, particularly if the popula- tions in question are of invasive character or some sort of disturbance occurs in the habitat of the target com- munity. The hypotheses can be tested by repeated mapping and preparing phytocoenological releves lo- cated precisely on the vegetation map. Acknowledgements: We thank Zsolt Molnár and András Kun for their help in field work and vegetation mapping. Sándor Bartha, Tamás Czárán and Beáta Oborny served with useful suggestions during discussions. We express our thanks to professor Mike B. Dale for his critical evaluation of the manuscript and his fruitful comments and suggestions, especially concernig the literature of related topics. Jánoš Podani did much in improving the English version of the text. Ákos Nagy helped us in image processing questions. This study was supported by a Hungarian Science Foundation (OTKA) grant No. TO 14651. References Cale, P. G. &amp; R. J. Hobbs 1994. Landscape heterogeneity indices: problems of scale and applicability, with particular reference to animal habitat description. Pacific Conservation Biology 1: 183-193. Cox, G. W. 1987. Nearest-neighbour relationships of overlapping circles and the dispersion pattern of desert shrubs. J. Ecol. 75: 193-199. Dierschke, H. 1994. Pflanzensoziologie. Eugen Ulmer, Stuttgart. Forman, R. T. T. 1995. Land Mosaics. The Ecology of Landscapes and Regions. Cambridge University Press, Cambridge. Glass, L. &amp; W. R. Tobler 1971. Uniform distribution of objects in a homogenous field: cities on a plain. Nature 233: 67-68. Green, D. G. 1994. Connectivity and complexity in landscapes and ecosystems. Pacific Conservation Biology 1: 194-200. Gustafson, E. J. &amp; R. H. Gardner, 1996. The effect of landscape heterogeneity on the probability of patch colonization. Ecology 77:94-107. Gustafson, E. J. &amp; G. R. Parker 1992. Relationship between landcover proportion and indices of landscape spatial pattern. Landscape Ecology 7 : 101-110. Gustafson, E. J. &amp; G. R. Parker 1994. Using an index of habitat patch proximity for landscape design. Landscape and Urban Planning 29: 117-130. Jakucs, P. 1972. Dynamische Verbindung der Wälder und Rasen. Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest. Krishna- Iyer, P. V. 1949. The first and second moments of some probability distributions arising from points on a lattice and their application. Biometrika 36: 135-141. McGarigal, K. &amp; B. Marks 1995. FRAGSTATS Manual. Spatial pat- tern analysis program for quantifying landscape structure. USDA Forest Service. General Technical Report PNW-GTR- 351 (August 1995). Murcia, C. 1995. Edge effect in fragmented forests: implications for conservation. TREE 10: 58-62. Saunders, D. A., R. J. Hobbs &amp; C. R. Margules 1990. Biological consequences of ecosystem fragmentation: a review. Conserva- tion Biology 5: 18-32. Simberloff, D. 1979. Nearest neighbor assessments of spatial con- figurations of circles rather than points. Ecology 60: 679-685. Simon, T. &amp; R. Mészáros-Draskovits 1972. The vegetation map of the nature reserve area of Csévharaszt in Hungary. Ann. Univ. Budapest, Sect. Biol. 14: 133-158. Stoyan, D. &amp; J. Ohser 1982. Correlation between planar random structures, with an ecological application. Biom. J. 24: 631-647. Turner, M. G. 1989. Landscape ecology: the effect of pattern on process. Ann. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 20: 171-197. With, K. A. &amp; T. O. Crist 1995. Critical thresholds in species' respon- ses to landscape structure. Ecology 76: 2446-2459. Zonneveld, I. S. 1990. Scope and concepts of landscape ecology as an emerging science. In: Zonneveld, I. S. &amp; R. T. T. Forman: Changing Landscapes: An Ecological Perspective. Springer, pp. 3-20.</page></plain_text>