<plain_text><page sequence="1">Association of Avian Technicians CONGRATULATIONS AVIAN TECHNICIANS The second annual meeting of the Association of Avian Techni cians (AAT) in Hawaii was an overwhelming success with approx imately sixty technicians in atten dance. Three proposals were presented and accepted by the Board of Directors of AAV. 1) The Association of Avian Technicians is officially recognized by AAV, and the constitution of AAT that was accepted at the 1986 Miami meeting will stand. (Copies of the AAT Constitution are available from Loni McEntee, 6213 Orsi Circle, Carmichael, CA 95608.) 2) Roger Harlin, DVM has been appointed by AAV President Walt Rosskopf to serve as the Technicians' Liaison and to represent the viewpoints of AAT at the Annual Board of Directors' meetings. 3) AAT will be given a budget of $500 per year to cover cor respondence and phone calls for the development of the organization. The AAV also voted to support the AAT in future continuing education programs to be held in conjunction with each AAV An nual Meeting. For the first time, a slate of of ficers was elected. Officers are: President: Loni McEntee, AHT, California Veterinary Diagnostics, West Sacramento, California; Vice President: Trudy Orme, AHT, All Pets Veterinary Clinic, Boulder, Colorado; and Secretary /Treasurer: Yvonne Gilliland, AHT, Four Cor ners Veterinary Clinic, Concord, California. We are all looking forward to a productive upcoming year for the Association of Avian Technicians and a return of the Avian Tech Times. We encourage all of you to send in articles and reviews of avian meetings in your respective areas, and suggestions for upcom ing meetings. We need your sup port and participation in your association. As they say in Hawaii, "Mahalo" to the Association of Avian Veterinarians for their con tinued support and encouragement for another great year. ? Loni McEntee, AHT Continuing Education for Avian Technicians Eastern States Veterinary Techni cian Program will be held January 19-21, 1988 at Marriott's Orlando World Center Hotel in Orlando, Florida. In addition to a wide variety of subjects for the small animal technician, Susan Clubb will present Psittacine Pediatrics for those with avian interests. For program informa tion, contact Eastern States Veterinary Association, 4300 NW 23rd Avenue, Suite 7, Gainesville, FL 32606 (904) 375-5672. Western Veterinary Conference An nual Seminar for Veterinary Techni cians is scheduled for February 14-17, 1988 at the Riviera Hotel in Las Vegas, Nevada. The Pet Bird session includes Avian Microbiology by Kim L. Joyner and Diseases and Parasites of Pet Birds by Susan L. Clubb. Registration materials may be obtain ed from Western Veterinary Con ference, Suite 210, 2235 E. Flamingo Road, Las Vegas, NV 89119. Tips on Nursing Care of Raptors Raptors (birds of prey) require highly specialized handling if they are to be helped more than harmed by their hospital stay. Handling rap torials birds in a manner that is safe for the handler and the patient is a primary concern. As aggressive and defensive strategies vary among the genera of raptors, it can be an in valuable aid for the technician to know the proper identification of the patient in order to more effectively handle that patient, as well as to understand physiologic and metabolic considerations which may well have a serious bearing on the treatment regimen. The technician is encourag ed to obtain a field guide of North American birds, preferably with color plates, to identify the raptors which will be brought to the practice. For subduing a raptor for short periods of time, Stockinette? 0ohnson &amp; Johnson) can be used to "tube" a hawk. This method is ef fective and easily done; however, the bird must be watched carefully. Never leave a bird unattended in a stockinette. Food provided for the hospitalized raptor should come as close as possi ble to the prey the bird would eat in the wild. This would not only be the most healthful diet, but would also be somewhat reasssuring to the rap tor. Whenever feeding rats or mice, try to use only the proper colored ones (brown), especially if it is with a young bird that is still having trouble with prey identification. The bird's weight should be ac curately measured on a gram scale and checked at frequent intervals throughout the bird's stay in the hospital. ? Diane Van Der Water, Lomita, California Technicians may join the Association of Avian Technicians by becoming an Associate Member of AAV (See membership applica tion material included with this issue.) Copies of the 1987 Proceedings of Association of Avian Techni cians' Meeting are available for $10 from the AAV Education Office. VOL.1 NO.4 1987 175</page><page sequence="2">^^hhhAssociation of Pigeon Veterinarians-^?-^?i^^?? The second annual meeting of the Association of Pigeon Veterinarians was held July 24-26, 1987 in St. Louis, Missouri. Speakers were Dr. Gerry Dorres tein from The Netherlands and Dr. J. K?sters from West Ger many. Twenty-one members were in attendance. It was voted to have officers serve two-year terms, retroactive to the previous year. The officers are: David Marx, President; Jon Esposito, Vice President; Roger Harlin, Secretary/Treasurer; Everett Bryant, Recording Secretary. The 1988 meeting was scheduled to be held again in St. Louis in conjunc tion with the American Pigeon Fanciers Council. Members of the association cur rently number over 50. Anyone in terested in pigeons is encouraged to join. Dues are $25 and can be sent to: Dr. David Marx, 1809 Logan Drive, Norman, OK 73069. ? Jon F. Esposito, DVM Position Statement The following Position State ment was passed as a unanimous resolution of the Association of Pigeon Veterinarians at the Second Annual Avian Veterinary Sym posium of the National Avian Disease Task Force for Pigeons and Doves, July 26, 1986, St. Louis, Missouri. 1 'The Association of Pigeon Veterinarians, after careful review of the Documentation of the Avian Disease Research Committee of the American Pigeon Fanciers' Council, and the implemented studies of the National Avian Disease Task Force for Pigeons and Doves, and consideration of the data from the United States Communicable Disease Center (CDC), we do affirm and testify that to our knowledge, the raising, keep ing and the exercising of pigeons and doves represents no more of a health hazard than the keeping of other communal or domestic pets." Client Information Available Three pocket-sized booklets have been produced by the Association of Pigeons Veterinarians under the auspices of the National Avian Disease Task Force for Pigeons and Doves as a service to pigeon fanciers. The titles are: Trichomoniasis in Pigeons (Canker), Helminth Parasites of Pigeons (Worms), and Parathyphoid in Pigeons. The set of three can be obtained for $2.50 (plus 39c stamp) from The Ink Spot, 311 1/2 West Fifth, Hutchinson, KS 67501. 176 AAV TODAY Practice Tips for Pigeon Veterinarians Thorough examination of any avian patient should include a fecal floata tion. However, because Tetrameres do not float as well as other oocysts, a smear is also indicated. Sinus infections are a common se quela to other disease processes, i.e., trichomoniasis. One would handle pigeon cases in a similar way to treat ment of chronic sinusitis in parrot pa tients, with the exception of the method of nasal flush. In pigeons, an open-ended torn cat catheter contain ing antibiotics (based on cultures and sensitivities, of course!) is inserted in to the nares and the cere is folded over the catheter. This type of flushing is very effective. The most common antibiotics I use are lin comycin, (or tylosine) plus spectinomycin. A similar situation occurs with a chronic tracheitis (and/or bronchitis). Even though the bird may be free of trichomonads, it continues to have rattling sounds indicating respiratory involvement. Intratracheal antibiotics can be administered by using the budgie-sized feeding tubes. The tube is inserted directly into the trachea and 0.1 to 0.3 cc is administered, depending on the size of the bird. Many cases resolve with 1 to 2 treatments. The state lab in Oklahoma recently confirmed paramyxovirus infection. This disease had previously been been considered limited to areas east of the Mississippi River. Paramyxovirus can be very devastating, resulting in severely affected birds (neurologic signs, etc.) and heavy losses. The af flicted bird in Oklahoma had only a mild head tilt. When examining pigeons with even the slightest neurologic signs, consider the possibility of paramyxovirus. ? Roger W. Harlin, DVM, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma Uses of Ivermectin in Pigeons Ivomec? (1% injectable ivermec tin for cattle - MSD AGVET) can be used in pigeons in a number of ways As a wormer, 0.1 cc is injected sub cutaneously. For external parasites (lice, mites, pigeon flies), Ivomec? can be diluted 1 cc/quart water and used as a loft spray, or 1-2 cc/gallon in bath water or as a dip. ? Jon F. Esposito, DVM, El Paso, Texas Subcutaneous Injections To avoid pectoral muscle damage to pigeons from intramuscular injec tions of medications, subcutaneous injections are preferred. This is nor mally administered in the neck region. Dr. Bruckner at the Animal Anatomy Institute in Giessen, West Germany, showed the presence of the blood supply by means of corrosion preparations in the vessels of pigeons, and could demonstrate that sex specific, more-or-less strong plexus venosi intracutanei collaris are located on both sides of the neck line, which must be considered when injecting. In the subcutaneous injection, the needle can be inserted in a craniodor sal or dorsocranial direction. The point of injection is in the lower third of the neck, strictly median. The pressure exerted on the syringe, and also the diameter of the injection are very important. The speed with which the fluid leaves the needle is greater in needles with small diameters than in those with larger diameters. This can cause tissue damage. Tissue damage is also possi ble by the use of very long needles because the leverage of the syringe on the pulled-out plunger will produce deviations from the direction of the injection caused by movement of the animal and inattentiveness of the holder of the bird. Prof. Dr. J. K?sters, University of Munich, West Germany</page></plain_text>