<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 8:1-13# 1984 A SIMULATION MODEL FOR GENERATING PATTERNS OF SESSILE POPULATIONS Tamas CZÁRÁN Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology L. Eötvös University, Budapest, Kun B. tér 2., H-1083 A Monte-Carlo simulation model has been developed for the study of the spatio-temporal behavior of n annual plant species. Restricted dispersion of propagules and local compe- tition among seedlings are assumed. The main conclusion obtained by the simulation of two extreme cases regarding propagule dispersion is that space-related events may have a considerable effect on the demography of interacting plant populations. I. INTRODUCTION There are several models in population dynamics concerning the fact that populations exist, grow and interact in both time and topographical space. Considering spatial aspects of these relations, it is allowed to release the rigorous and, for most natural situations, rather irrealistic assumption of overall homogeneity that occurs in classical, pure time-dyna- mic (e.g., Lotka-Volterra type) representations (cf. Wilson and Bossert 1971, Strobeck 1973). But the majority of spatio- temporal models, like those concerning 'patchy environments' . (cf. MacArthur and Wilson 1967, DeAngelis et al. 1978, Maynard- -Smith 1974), contagion (May 1978, Beddington et al. 1978) and diffusion (Pielou 1977, Okubo 1980, Nisbet and Gurney 1982) are still in essence deterministic. Stochastic effects, however, may be of great importance in the formatioa of topo- graphical patterns of populations, which in turn may have a strong influence, for example, on the intensity of population</page><page sequence="2">2 interactions . All the models considering stochasticity in generating patterns of populations use Monte-Carlo computer simulation methods, because explicitly analytical modelling of stochastic spatio-temporal processes is very difficult in most cases. (For Monte-Carlo methods see, for example, Szobol (1981) or Ripley (1981) and references therein.) Stochastic simulation models of pattern formation of sessile populations in discrete, two-dimensional topographical space and discrete time are constructed, for example, by Auld and Coote (1980), Karlson and Jackson (1980) and Weiner and Conte (1980). The primary concern of this paper is to present a model based on a hypothetical pattern generating mechanism with growing, spreading and competing annual plant populations in a continuous, ecologically homogeneous and isotropic section of topographical space (Section II). The model can be studied from several points of view of which only one, the dependence of demographical invariance (i.e., temporal invari- ance of some simple collective demographical functions) on dispersal, will be studied here (Section III). Some further problems to be examined are mentioned in Section IV. II. MODEL SITUATION II. 1 Basic conditions Suppose that there is a plot of arbitrary size in a planar topographical region, covered with fertile soil, but with no plants or any kind of plant propagules in it. The plot is assumed to be surrounded by a community of invariable floristic composition, from which seeds of annual plant species invade to the plot in every discrete time unit (say, years). Invasion is represented by a Poisson point process, that is, spatial arrangement of invaders is completely randomized within the plot. All propagules and adult plant individuals are treated as dimensionless, point-like objects. The probability that a</page><page sequence="3">3 seed of any population sprouts is set equal to 1 regardless of its spatial position, provided tnat it is not subjected to competitive action (ll.3). This condition may be interpreted as an assumption of 'ecological homogeneity ' , mentioned in the introductory section. II. 2 Seed production and dispersion 'Per capita' growth rates are given for all invading populations. Each adult individual of population i produces ♦jL propagules per year and scatters them around itself with equal probability in any direction. The distance of seeds from their parents is also a random variable with a Gaussian dis- tribution of zero mean. Dispersal of population i is represent- ed by the standard deviation ck of the Gaussian. Thus, the probability density function of propagule dispersion for an individual situated in (CļfC2) is (y-ç2)2 f(x,y)= e - 2 2Jlaí ¿a± A graphical illustration is given in Fig.l. Seeds scattered outside the plot ^re lost. This spreading mechanism is, of course, a result of arbit- rary choice? it can be replaced by any other one. What is most important in this context is that the range of propagule dis- persion is more or less restricted in space (Harper 1977). According to spreading strategy, may be very small (e.g., for plant species propagating with vegetative organs), very high (as for species dispersed with light seeds, well-armed for long-distance aerial travel), or any values between the extremes .</page><page sequence="4">4 II. 3 Competition in space and sequence of interactions In time t adult individuals generate a pattern of pro- pagules within the plot and die. It is supposed that the remains of dead plants cause no changes in relevant ecological factors of the soil, i.e., the plot has no memory regarding the previously existed individuals. Seeds germinate in the next point of time t+1. Populations may be ordered in a series according to the temporal sequence of their sprouting within a year. The only interaction is local competition among already germinated seeds (seedlings), considered as follows: For all ordered pairs of populations a parameter is defined, is the radius of competitive action everted by a seedling Fig. 1. The probability density function f(x,y) of propagule dispersion around an individual situated in</page><page sequence="5">5 from population i upon another from population j ; i and j may as well be identical (for the case of ' intraspecif ic' compe- tition). 'Competitive action' means decreasing the chance of nearby seedlings to survive. If the topographical distance dTT of two seedlings, I from population i and J from popula- i j tion j, is greater than both and then there is no competition between I and J, so that neither of them can affect the probability of the survival of the other. When a..^dT_£a. . , the probability of the event that D i seedling J dies and I survives is Pjj= 1 (provided, of course, that seedling I has no other competitors)/ i.e., the competitive effect exerted by seedling I is unilateral and lethal for J (p__=0). If dTT is smaller than botha. . and a.., then J JL 1 J 1 J J JL aij pu T* - aij aji whereas the complementary event (I dies and J survives) results with a probability of P -2l lj ji In this case competition is bilateral, but lethal only for one of the competitors. If they are from the same population, then their competitive effects upon each other are of the same strenght, but when i ^ j, chances of I and J for survival are different, pyj + Pjj = 1, of course. These relations are illustrated in Fig. 2. All pairs of individuals interact independently,, that is, if a seedling has two or more competitors, they decrease its chance of survival in a multiplicative way: the probability that a seedling I from population i survives, provided that it has two competitors, J and K from populations j and k is</page><page sequence="6">6 thus Pjj - pIK. Since only seedlings compete , seeds and adults do not, the sequence of germination is important in determining the sequence of interactions. When the seeds of a population sprout they interact with all other seedlings from populations ger- minated earlier. This way every population interacts with all others, but in a predetermined order. (It should be noted that the sequence of germination may have a great effect on inter- actions among natural plant populations, see, for example, Numata 1982). Again, this mechanism of competition is fictitious and extre- mely simplified as that of spreading ( 1 1 . 2 ) , but it reflects the fact that competition is essentially a local interaction in topographical space. This is especially clear in case of sessile organisms like terrestrial plants or some benthic animals. As they are unable to move, they can compete throughout their lives only with those individuals situated inside their zone of influence. Fig. 2. a. I&gt;ij=1 and i'ji=0# (seedling I sur- vives and J dies with a probability of 1.) b* &gt; aji &gt;drj; p" = and pJi =</page><page sequence="7">7 III. POPULATION PATTERN AND DEMOG RAPH I CAL INVARIANCE Invasion, limited dispersion and local competition repre- sent a pattern generating mechanism, leading to the ' satura- tion' of the plot. Collective demographical characteristics of an 'artificial community' created this way depend on both direct demographical parameters (these are the numbers of invading propagules and population growth rates) and those related to spatial spreading and competition (dispersal values and radii of competitive interactions). The dispersal parameters (a^) determine a continuous probabili- ty spectrum of possible 'pre-patterns ' of propagules at time t for any pattern of the parent plant generation. For t+1 a concrete realization (outcome) of this spectrum occurs. Com- petition 'riddles' the pre-pattern, eliminating many of the propagules present. Thus, it is clear that dispersion may have a strong indirect influence on the demographical consti- tution of a' community' via local competition. This section is devoted to the simulation approach to this problem. III.l Methods Two extreme situations, differing only in dispersal, were simulated. The plot size was 60x60 units, the number of popu- lations n=8. Each population invaded with 4 propagules per year. 'Per capita' growth rates were $^=4 for all populations. Radii of competitive interactions were chosen so that compe- tition relations made up a 'transitive network', that is, all populations had some 'strong' and 'weak' competitors among the others. (For details about competitive networks see the model of Karlson and Jackson 1981). For the sake of simplicity, radii of competitive interactions were only of 3 sizes: 'great', 'medium' and 'small', resulting in 'strong', 'inter- mediate' and 'weak' competitive effects, respectively. The a ^ values are given in the matrix of Table 1. A ranking parameter r^ is assigned to all populations, according to their 'average competitive potential':</page><page sequence="8">8 Table 1. S: a^j=1.0 topographical units; M: ou ^=2.0 topographi- cal units? G: (*^=4.0 topographical units. Population i i;i 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 r. i 2_ •o 1 S S S M M G G G 3 J.2GSSSMMGG3 0 3GGSSSMMG3 ♦J4MGGSSSMM2 5 5 M M G G S S S M 2 36SMMGGSSS1 0 7 S S M M G G S S 1 8 SS SM M GG. SI n n ri&lt;rk if .*&gt;z ^ j=i j.i Sequence of germination: population i is the i to sprout. In the first run of the simulation program the dispersal values v/ere small compared with plot size: &lt;$i was 2.5 topo- graphical units for all populations. In the second run, the dispersion of seeds was randomized, i.e., the arrangement of propagules was independent of the position of their parents. Temporal changes in demographical constitution were followed by two very simple functions: a) the total number of individuals: n ». «L i = l within the plot and b) the relative species-individual diversity (evenness): n n n y N . • log 21 Ni - Zi ISL log nJ E = -lži n • log n i = l</page><page sequence="9">9 Fig. 3. Total number of individuals (n) and evenness (E) plotted against time in the Poisson (&amp;' and the Gaussian &lt;D) dispersion cases. N 1000 300 _ y' 300 " / ' A 600 . I* ' ' 500 _ ff ' J ' A h* 400 _ J ' / ' /V/ 300 _ / r V ' / V/ 200 _ / / y Ū00 - ^'' ' i - i - i - i - i - i - i - i - i i i i i i i i i i i i i i 0 5 10 15 20 25 E 1.0 ^ 0 7 ~ ' o o ^ ^ 0.6 _ 1 t 0.3 _ ' A ļ ' / ' 0.2 _ ' ' / ' y v &gt; - i - i - i - i - i - i - i - i - i - i - i - i - 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 0 5 10 15 20 25</page><page sequence="10">10 III« 2 Results Outcomes of simulations with the input data given in III.l are shown in Fig. 3. Numbers of generations (iterations^ were g=25 in both runs. III. 3 Conclusions and comments A short glance on Fig. 3 is enough to realize that the results in the two cases are even qualitatively very different. Gaussian dispersion of propagules with low dispersal values led to relatively 'smooth' and monotonie increase in the total number of individuals present , until the plot became saturated. Evenness was almost maximum at the first point of time (since the first invaders before competition were equally distributed among populations ), and declined moderately to its 'balanced' value of about 0.75. Decrease is due to the disappearence of some of the weakest competitors: populations 1 and 2, both ranked 3 . In the second case with Poisson dispersion , N and E showed periodical fluctuations with a periodicity of 5 time units on the average. All peaks of N are due to single 'dominant' popu- lations succeeding consecutively, according to their rank parameter ri# When one of the populations dominates, evenness is of course low. Steep decline of for a dominant popula- tion i is caused by its strong competitors, one of which turns to be the next in dominance, etc. Besides the average compe- titive potential, the sequence of dominants is affected by the sequence of germination and the 'accidental' character of pattern formation. Decreasing height of peaks in N and in- creasing trend of E are explained by the fact that popula- tions replacing the last dominants are of decreasing competi- tive potential; since weaker populations cannot dominate upon all others, a 'looser' pattern with more competitors present is formed. Short-range dispersal of all populations in the Gaussian version results in a patch-mosaic pattern (see the classical</page><page sequence="11">11 work of Watt 1947). Patches are dense aggregates of individuals/ usually from the same population. The mosaic is in permanent motion, since neighboring aggregates gain territory from each other. For a given population, patches of its weak competitors represent refuges: moving inside these patches they can avoid their strong competitors. The neighborhood relations of popu- lations within the mosaic remain more or less invariable in time, since they follow the moving refuges. An increase in the size of a patch lenghtens its perimeter exposed to competitive action, which in turn reduces patch size. Any deformation of an isodiametric patch enlarges its perimeter /area ratio; in this case the patch might be segmén- tated by competitor patches to isodiametric fragments that are able to grow towards nearby refuges. Such mechanisms regulating population sizes are responsible for long-term coexistence, and thus the slight slope of evenness. These results are iji good accordance with the conclusions of Weiner and Conte (1980) in spite of the fact that their model works in discrete topogra- phical space and assumes different mechanisms for spreading and competition. Dispersing propagules to long distances is undoubtedly an advatageous strategy for plants to explore, invade and colonize new inhabitable areas, but for prolonged existence in the habitat already colonized, aggregation may be desirable for populations of even strong competitive potential, otherwise after a relatively short 'gradation period' they might become extinct. There are many species (e.g., some grasses) following the strategy of invading by wind-dispersed seeds, and then switching to vegetative propagation in order to keep themselves present in the habitat. Alternation of the two different types of reproduction may be a kind of optimal behavior for them, as it increases their chances to survive.</page><page sequence="12">12 IV. OUTLOOK? POSSIBLE WAYS TO DEVELOP THE MODEL The elementary mechanism for generating population patterns outlined in Section II , can be complicated by incorporating several supplementary assumptions. One modification has already been done: the model is extended to not only annual, but biennial or perennial populations. A linear increment in time for all O r values represents the increasing competitive abilities of older plant individuals. Growth rates may be different f dispersal values are the same in different age classes of a population. The effect of age structure on collec- tive demography is to be studied. Both the simple and the extended version may be useful for testing pattern analysis techniques, because the results of those for a given pattern generated must be interpretable in terms of the mechanism a priori determined in the model. Assuming 'ecological inhomogeneity ' , dormancy and accumu- lative changes in soil due to humification would make it possible to approximate some aspects of succession. It would, however, require much more computing capacity that is una- vailable now. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS This paper is based on my graduate work prepared under the supervision by Prof. P. Juhás z-Nagy. I am very grateful for his guidance during my studies and for the repeated criticism of the manuscript. Many thanks are due to S. Bartha, I greatly benefited from the discussions with him. REFERENCES Auld, B. A. and B. G. Coote. 1980. A model of a spreading plant population. Oikos 34:287-292 Beddington, J. R. , C. A. Free and J. H. Lawton. 1978. Characteristics of successful natural enemies in models of</page><page sequence="13">13 biological control of insect pests. Nature 273:513-519 DeAngelis, O. L. , C. C. Travis and Ví. M. Post. 1978. Persistence and stability of seed-dispersed species in a patchy environment. Theor. Population Biol. 16:107-125 Harper, J. L. 1977. Population Biology of Plants. Academic Press, London Karlson, R. H. and J. B. C. Jackson. 1981. Competitive networks and community structure: a simulation study. Ecology 62:670-678 MacArthur, R. H. and E. 0. Wilson. 1967. The Theory of Island Biogeography . Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton May, R. M. 1978. Host-parasi toid systems in patchy environments: a phenomenological model. J. Animal Ecol. 47:833-843 Maynard-Smith, J. 1974. Models in Ecology. Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge Nisbet, R. M. and W. S. C. Gurney. 1982. Modelling Fluctuating Populations. Wiley, New York Okubo, A. 1980. Diffusion and Ecological Problems: Mathematical Models. Bionathematics Vol 10. Pielou, E. C. 1977. Mathematical Ecology. Wiley, New York Ripley, B. D. 1981. Spatial Statistics. Wiley, New York Strobeck, G. 1973. N-species competition. Ecology 54:650-654 Szobol, I. M. 1981. A Monte-Carlo módszerek alapjai. Müszaki Kônyvkiadó, Budapest Watt, A. S. 194 7. Pattern and process in the plant community. J. Ecol. 35:1-22 Weiner, J. and P. T. Conte. 1981. Dispersal and neighborhood effects in an annual plant competition model. Ecol. Modelling 13:131-147 Wilson, E. 0. and W. H. Bossert 1971. A Primer of Population Biology. Sinauer, Sunderland (Received December 10, 1984)</page></plain_text>