<plain_text><page sequence="1">IN MY EXPERIENCE . . . Beginners' Notes IME 546 . . INTERPRETATION OF DIAGNOSTIC FINDINGS IN PSITTACIFORME BIRDS (From Proceedings of 33rd Western Poultry Disease Conference, University of California, Davis, 1984.) With pet birds, laboratory and/ or pathomorphological findings are frequently not well correlated with the clinical pattern or the course of the disease. The following may offer some aid in interpretation of such discrepancies for better understand ing of the underlying mechanisms. The etiologlcal diagnosis of a disease in pet birds is hampered by several facts, for Instance: 1. Poor expression of clinical symptoms. A sick bird is sleepy, 1s huddled on the perch or even on the floor of the cage, and has a ruffled plumage. Additional signs such as diarrhea, polyuria, coryza, etc., are frequently not more enlightening as far as etiology is concerned. 2. Relative uniformity of patho logical lesions which lead to long lists of possible differential diag noses. 3. Possibility that pathogens such as Chlamydia, Herpesvirus, Sal monella, etc., can be carried latent ly over long periods of time. 4. Presence of microorganisms that are widespread and known to cause disease on occasions, such as Adenovirus, Reovirus, and bacteria such as Citrobacter and the "so called" AI cali genes. 5. Presence of secondary inva ders or opportunistic, facultatively pathogenic organisms that need one or more triggering factors in order to colonize beyond the muscosal bar riers. Depending on their own viru lence, they can now become systemic or alter the clinical and/or patho logical pattern as well as sustaining a disease process of their own. Bac teria fulfilling these criteria are many strains of coTi, Salmonella, Staphylococccus, Pseudomonas aerugi nosa , and Aeromonas hydrophila^ A mong the fungal species Aspergillus and Candida are frequent secondary invaders. Among flagellata, Tricho monas or Giardia should be mentioned. On an experimental basis, Koch's 4th postulate cannot be fulfilled with these agents. A critical analysis of all the problems in reaching an etlological diagnosis leads to the conclusion that many diseases, 1f not the major ity, in pet birds are not induced monocausally but by the interaction of one or several supporting factors in the environment. Non-Infectious Stressors may be as important as microorganisms. This is even true for primary pathogenic microorganisms which are classified as such by their capacity to cause a specific disease that can be reproduced experimental ly. Mistakes in feeding and husban dry or sudden changes in climate can trigger a latent infection of a pri mary pathogen Into clinical disease. A good example 1s the disease caused by Pacheco's virus. The same type of mistake in a bird free of primary pathogens might Induce disease alone or, more likely, in cooperation with an opportunistic facultative patho gen. The clinical pattern is often non-specific and treatment for the bacterium in question frequently fails to restore health and may re place the original strain with anot her bacterium more resistant to the drug given. For the clinician, the main task is to interpret the laboratory re sults correctly in view of the like lihood of multiple etiology. The following types of questions, which apply mainly to bacteria and only occasionally to virus, may be an aid: 1. Has the organism been iso lated in large numbers and in almost pure culture? (Viral Isolation met hods as a rule are enrichment methods and give no Information on the num bers of particles in the original material). Only large numbers of one bacterium in relative pure culture should be considered 1n relation to a disease. 2. Has the organism caused bac teremia? Was it found in high num bers in almost pure culture in the heart tissue? If the answer is yes, the agent is considered to be part of the disease process. 20</page><page sequence="2">3. Is the organism known to be a component of the autochthonous flora? If the answer is yes, the bacterium is likely to be only a secondary i nvader. 4. Do the parenchymata, from which the organism in question has been isolated, display pathological or histopathological lesions consist ent with a bacterial or viral infec tion? If the answer is yes, the agent is likely to have influenced the disease process at a significant 1 evel. 5. What microorganisms other than the bacterium in question are present (virus, Chlamydia, other bac teria, fungi, protozoa)? If the answer is virus or Chlamydia, the agent is' likely to be a secondary invader. If the answer is fungi or protozoa, the agent might be a pri mary pathogen. Such a conclusion should be made according to the bac terium sp. and in view of the proba bility that a virus might not have been discovered. In conclusion, it can be stated that laboratory findings from pet birds need a careful analysis to become helpful in establishing an etiological diagnosis because labora tory findings frequently represent only part of the disease problem. Dr. Helga Gerlach University of Munich</page></plain_text>