<plain_text><page sequence="1">203 June 3, 1852. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. The Annual Meeting for the Election of Fellows was held this day. . TIhe Statutes for the Election of Fellows having bee read, Dr. Forbes and Dr. McWilliam were, with the consent of the Society, appointed Scrutators. The votes of the Fellows present having been collected, the fol- lowing gentlemen were declared duly elected Arthur Kett Barclay, Esq. Hugh Lee Pattinson, Esq., Rev. Jonathan Cape. Rev. B. Price. Arthur Cayley, Esq. William Simms, Esq. Henry Gray, Esq. Hugh E. Strickland, Esq. Wyndham Harding, Esq. John Tyndall, Esq. Arthur Henfrey, Esq. Nathaniel Bagshaw Ward, Esq. John Higginbottorn, Esq. Captain Younghusband, R.A. John Mercer, Esq. The Society then adjourned to the 10th of June. June 10, 1852. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. The following gentlemen were admitted into the Society:- Arthur Kett Barclay, Esq. Hugh Lee Pattinson, Esq. Arthur Cayley, Esq. William Simms, Esq. Henry Gray, Esq Hugh E. Strickland, Esq. Arthur Henfrey, Esq. William Thomson, Esq. John Higginbottom, Esq. Captain Younghusband, R.A. The following papers were read :- 1. "On the Structure and Development of Bone." By John Tomes, F.R.S., Surgeon Dentist to the Middlesex Hospital, and Campbell De Morgan, Surgeon to the Middlesex Hospital. Re- ceived April 22, 1852. In this communication, the authors, after having briefly noticed the intimate structure of perfect bone as commonly recognised, pro- ceed to the description of certain points connected with its structure and development, which they believe to have been hitherto entirely overlooked or only partially recognised. These points have been arranged under the following heads:- 1. The Haversian and other canals of bone. 2. The laminae of bone. 3. The lacune. 4. Haversian systems. 5. Ossified cartilrage of joints.</page><page sequence="2">204 6. Ossified cells. 7. Bone tissue. S. Development of bone in temporary cartilage. 9. Growth of bone. 1. Haversian and other canals of bone.-IBesides the Haversian canals, the authors have pointed out that there are found in bone sections spaces of an entirely different character, irregular in shape, and with an irregular festooned margin. Their margins correspond in outline with those of one or more Haversian systems, and precede in many instances the formation of those systems. These spaces produced by absorption are called by the authors Haversian spaces. Unlike the Haversian canals which are surrounded by their own laminse, these spaces are bounded by parts of several systems which have been encroached on by the process of absorption. In examining various sections, or different parts of the same section, these spaces will be found in different states of partial or entire occupation by Haversian systems. They are found in the bone of subjects of all ages. The fact of removal of old tissue and replacement by new, which has been hitherto only assumed, is thus demonstrated. 2. Laminwe of bone.-Lamination is shown to be a constant character of mammalian bone; each lamina, when highly developed, is found to consist of a dark granular, and of a transparent part. The ex- ternal margin of the outermost lamina of each Haversian system is irregularly indented and corresponds with the outline of a pre-exist- ing Haversian space; while its internal margin and all the succeed- ing laminne are regular in outline. The lamini are found as a general rule to surround their canal, which is usually placed in the centre of them. But sometimes: the canals are eccentric, in which case either the lamine on one side, though still surrounding the canal, are broader, or there are more developed on one side than on the other. The lamina next to the perfected Haversian canal however is always complete, and is often composed of a transparent structureless tissue, like that which encir- cles the Haversian canals of the stag's antler at the time of shedding. The presence of interstitial Iamine is readily accounted for; they are in fact the remains of pre-existing Haversian systems, or circumr ferential laminae, parts of which have been removed by absorption. 'The circumferential laminix are not so constantly present as is generally described, and rarely entirely surround the shaft of a long bone. When present, they seem to indicate that the bone is nearly stationary in its. growth. They are frequently intersected by nume- rous Haversian spaces and systems, so as at length to assume the characters of interstitial lamninae. 3. Lacune. -In young bone the lacunm are more abundant, larger, and have more numerous canaliculi; or they may exist without cana- liculi, or the canaliculi and great part of the lacunae themselves may be filled up with s,olid mattcr, so as to leave only a small space in the centre of the lattter The lacuna and cartaliculi are shown to have distifct walk.</page><page sequence="3">205 In the circumferential laminae are frequently found elongated tubes which the authors regard as modifications of lacune ; they run ob- liquely across the laminas, generally in bundles. They frequently form communications with the canaliculi. In transverse section they are seen to have proper walls. - 4. Haversian systems..-'The authors have here pointed out that the anastomosis of the- canaliculi of adjoining systems is rare in newly- developed systems, but is very common in those of greater age. It has been seen too that it not unfrequently happens that a series of Haversian systems is contained within a common series of surround- ing laminie. Sometimes the Haversian systems are rendered quite solid by the narrowing of the Haversian canal and ultimate develop- ment of a mere lacuna in the centre of the system. The more re- cently developed Haversian systems which occupy Haversian spaces are seen to be darker in colour than the older ones, from the greater abundance of canaliculi, and the more general granularity of the tissue. 5. Ossified articular cartilage.-This structure the authors have found in all the joints which they have examined, in the lower jaw, amongst others, where Kolliker failed to detect it. Towards the bone the tissue becomes in general granular and of a brownish colour, and usually there is a distinct line of demarcation between the bone and the ossified cartilage; but sometimes they graduate insensibly the one into the other. Towards the articular surface the margin is even and regular; but towards the bone it is deeply indented, from the bone advancing into it by rounded projections. Hence the articular cartilage varies in thickness. The authors believe that this, so far from being an indi- cation of imperfect development, is in reality an evidence of design, and intended to give an uniform and unyielding surface for the car- tilage to rest upon. 6. Ossified cells..-In the bones of aged people it is frequently ob- served that they become light and spongy, and after maceration con- tain a white powder in the cancellated structure. This powder the authors liave found to be composed mainly of ossified nucleated cells, either (letached or held together in masses. They are spherical, and contain a dark granular nucleus, which is surrounded by a thick transparent wall. If portions of the cancelli be taken, they will be found to have simi- lar cells adherent to their surfaces, or to those of the Haversian canals, with here and there canaliculi of adjoining lacunue shooting into them, while the nuclei have themselves assumed the form of lacunae. Similar cells may be found imbedded in parts of most sec- tions of bone. In order to see this condition clearly, it is desirable that the sections and the loose cells should be mounted in Canada balsam. 7. Bone tissue.-The views generally entertained with regard to the ultimate structure of bone tissue are, the older one, that it consists of an aggregation of granules in a transparent matrix; and that</page><page sequence="4">206 which has been more recently put forward by Dr. Sharpey, that in many cases it is composed of ossified decussating fibres. The authors have satisfied themselves that the ultimate structure of bone tissue 'is composedof 6minute granules or granular bodies imbedded in a clear or subgranular matrix; and that the appearance of fibres' is due 'in many cases to the mode' of illumination. By transmitted light passing through them in the long axis( of the mi- croscope the preparations show a:granular or a structureless appear- ance, or: alternations of a granular and structureless part. But under an 'oblique light passing from one side only an appearance of minute flat fibres presents itself. This takes place even' in the isolated. cells of old bone, or in developing young bone. 'This appearance is most marked over the lacunae and canaliculi. But if a part which thus appears fibrous be viewed under a light passing obliquely from all sides, as is effected by a Gillett's achromatic condenser, the fibres disappear, and we see only a granular appearance, with some ten- dency to arrangement in the granules. The fibrous appearance is in fact-due to the shadows cast from the less transparent parts when the light, passes obliquely, just as in the navicula the dots are re- placed by lines. In thin sections torn from bone which has been macerated in acid, a reticulated appearance, similar to that figured by. Dr. Sharpey, may be seen, only however when the object is slightly out of focus, or the light oblique and from one side. :By careful adjustment of the object-glass and of the illuminating appa- ratus, this appearance may be shown to depend on the presence of the canaliculi. 8 and 9. Development and growth of bone. -The early condition of cartilage, and the changes which 'take place in it and in the cartilage cell before ossification, are particularly described; and also the mode by which they multiply and arrange themselves by segmentation, so that a long column or cluster of cells represents an original cell, the walls of which' have coalesced with the surrounding hyaline tissue. The cells at the same time enlarge individually as they approach the point where ossification is going on, encroaching on the hyaline sub- stance so as in many cases only to leave a fine line of intercolumnaro tissue, or to cause it to disappear altogetr her. Thenucleus at the same time enlarges considerably, while the cell wall becomes thickened internally, until in the end it reaches the nucleus, which then be.- comes imbedded in firm tissue. Other changes now take place: either several cells are thrown into one cavity by the absorption of their contigiuous walls, leaving the nuclei free in the common cavity; or the nucleus continues to occupy its parent cell, and sends off small processes, which extend outwards to the cell wall. At this stage the nucleus may be sometimes detached with the processes entire, but generally it is adherent, and may be seen to have become a lacuna with a central cavity and canaliculi; in addition to which a nucleus may be seen' to occupy its interior ; it has in fact become a nucleated cell, designated by the authors "granular cell." The entire cell may now be detached from the intercolumnar tissue in which it lies.</page><page sequence="5">207 Tle granular condition of the intercolumnar tissue andof the cell itself often renders the observation of 'thiis stage very difficult; but in riikety bone it is very readily shown, as in this disease there is a tendency for the cells to assume their permanent form before the deposit of bone-earth in any considerable quantity. To cells thus composed of an outer thickened cell wall and an inner granular cell (the cartilage nucleus of authors) which contains within it a nucleus (the nucleolus of writers), which stands in the relation of a nucleus to the future lacuna, the authors have given the name of "'lacunal cells," while the term granular cell has been applied to tlat which is usually designated the nucleus. In transverse sections of bone immediately below the line of ossification, the lacunal cells may be seen presenting different characters under different circumstances. Where two cells come into contact, the processes or canaliculi may be seen extending across from one to the other; but where the cell is surrounded by intercolumnar tissue, the processes are short and do not extend beyond the walls -of their own cell; or if cells join at one point wlile the renmainder is inverted with intercolumnar tissue, the canaliculi will anastomose at the point of junction; while elsewhere they are few, short, and'do not extend beyond the cell. In the further process of development the cells and intercolumnar tissue become fused together so as no longer to be recognised as distinct parts; and the granular cell appears as a perfect lacuna witl a large cavity and numerous large canaliculi. To bone in this con- dition the term primary bone has been applied. It speedily however undergoes a change preparatory to the formation of the more per- manent secondary bone. Here and there in the line of ossification portions are removed by absorption, the spaces left being filled with small somewhat granular cells lying in a transparent blastema, through the agency of which the absorption has been in all probability effected. It would appear as though the cells grew at the expense of the sur- rounding tissue. These spaces correspond entirely to the Haversian spaces before described; and in them the secondary bone is in the first instance formed. The process of formation of secondary bone appears to be everywhere essentially the same, whether in the ab- sorbed spaces, or on the surfaces, or in the membranes of the foetal cranium, except that in the two latter cases there is a pre-existing fibrous tissue, which, before ossification begins, undergoes a change similar to that which occurs in the bone itself and is converted into a cellular mass. So that at the border where ossification is advan- cing there is only an arrangement of cells; while a little beyond that point the cells have fibrous tissue: abundantly mixed up with them; and there is in fact a resemblance to fibrous tissue in an early state of formation. The formation of perfect bone is effected by means of cells, perhaps identical with those which are found repla- cing the previous tissue, but at all events undistinguishable from them by any microscopical characters. 'To these cells, which take part in the formation of bone, the authors have given the name o6f " osteal cells." In the case of laminated bone they arrange them- selves side by side, and, together with the transparent blastema in</page><page sequence="6">208 which they lie, become impregnated with ossific matter, and pernma nently fused with the bone tissue with which they lie in contact. By the linear arrangement of these. osteal cells lamination is pro- duced. In the case of new laminated bone the cells are simply os- sifiedwithout arrangement. Lying amongst the osteal cells will be seen some which have accumulated around them a quantity of tissue which forms a thick investment to them; they then become granular, and take on in every respect the characters of a lacunal cell. These are found deposited at intervals along the line of ossification and be- coming blended with the general mass; the granular cell remaining as a lacuna, and sending out processes amongst the cells in all di- rections. In old bone the cell character is in great part lost by a general blending of the constituents, but may in many specimens be still here and there recognised. Many instances are given in sup- port of the conclusion that absorption of bone and of dental tissue is effected directly through the influence of cells, but these are ne- cessarily excluded from this abstract; indeed it is impossible to give any other than a very imperfect account of the contents of the paper within the prescribed limits, especially as the numerous illustrations which accompany the paper cannot be made use of. 2. "On Rubian and its Products of Decomposition. Part II. Action of Alkalies and Alkaline Earths on Rubian." Bv Edward Schunck, Esq., F.R.S. Received April 19, 1852. From the author's experiments it appears that rubian is decom- posed by the fixed alkalies, and by lime and baryta, but not by am- monia. The products of decomposition formed by the action of the alkalies and alkaline earths are five in number. They are as fol- lows :-lst, Alizarine; 2nd, Verantine; 3rd, Rubiretine; 4th, Sugar; and 5th, a new substance, which the author denominates Rubiadine. The first four possess the same properties and composition as when formed by the action of acids on rubian. The fifth substance, rubia- dine, occupies the place of rubianine, which it closely resembles. It crystallizes from an alcoholic solution in small yellow or orange- coloured needles. It is insoluble in boiling water, and when care- fully heated it may be almost entirely volatilized, forming a subli- mate of yellow micaceous scales, endowed with considerable lustre. By these two properties it may be distinguished from rubianine, which is soluble in boiling water, and cannot be heated without being de- composed. Its other properties coincide almost entirely with those of rubianine. Its composition is expressed by the formula C32 H12 Os, and presuming that the formula for rubianine be C32 H,I 05, it would differ from the latter only by the elements of 7 equivs. of water. Besides these substances, there is also formed a small quantity of a dark brown powder, which is soluble in alkalies, but insoluble in water and alcohol. This substance has. precisely the same compo- sition as the ulmic acid of Mulder, formed by the action of strong acids on cane-sugar. Its formation is doubtless due to the further action of the alkali on the sugar formed in the first instance. Action of Ferments on Rubian.-It has long been suspected by</page></plain_text>