<plain_text><page sequence="1">289 Case of a Lady, born blind, who received Sight at an advanced Age by the Formation of an artificial Pupil. By James Wardrop, Esq. F.R.S. Edinb. Surgeon Extraordinary to the King, &amp;fc. Communi- cated by the President. Read June 15, 1826. [Phil. Trans. 1826, Part III. p. 529.] The lady, the subject of this communication, shortly after her birth, was perceived to be blind by a peculiar groping manner, and an ope- ration was therefore, at six months of her age, performed on both her eyes; in consequence of which, she lost the whole globe of one, and the pupil of the other became closed. Her blindness, up to the forty- sixth year of her age, was so complete, that she could barely distin- guish in sunshine, or in brightest moonlight, which way the light came. This, however, being sufficient to indicate a sound state of the nerve, three operations were successively performed on her eye by the author, for removing a portion of the closed iris. They were attended with but very slight inflammation, and proved successful in imparting vision. A journal of her progress in the art of seeing, and of her sensations, as expressed in her own words, from the first to the forty-second day after the last operation, is given in the paper before us. She appears, up to that period, to have.acquired but very imperfectly, if at all, the power of directing her eye to any given object; catching it only by repeated trials, and as it were searching for it; nor was she at that time yet capable of rightly appreciating the distances of objects. Colours, however, forms, and relative situ- ations, in angular positions, were distinguished much earlier; the former immediately, the latter after very short practice. She ap- peared equally delighted and bewildered by her new sense; pleased with gay colours and sparkling objects, but most profoundly and per- manently affected by the grand features of nature,-the clear blue sky, the fields and trees. The author regards this case as instrucltive in many points, espe- cially in a physiological one, as showing the possibility of preserving nervous sensibility unimpaired, during so very long a period of com- plete inaction. On the progressive Compression of Water by high Degrees of Force, with some Trials of its Effects on other Fluids. By J. Perkins. Communicated byW. H. Wollaston, iM.D. V.P.R.S. Miay 25. Read June 15, 1826. [Phil. Trans. 1826, Part III. p. 541.] MIr. Perkins first describes the machine which he employed in his experiments. It consisted of a cylinder of gun-metal, 34 inches long and 13- external diameter, having an internal cavity 29 inches long and 1- inch diameter; into the upper part of which is screwed a steel pump,. 8-I- inches long and 1- inch external diameter, and -s ths externally. The pump has a valve opening inwards at its lower ex- tremity, and a conical enlargement at the top, and the piston is ren- dered water-tight without stuffing. A lever apparatus is properly VOL. II. U</page></plain_text>