<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 1 8( 1 ):7- 12(1 994) © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest Correlation of indicator values with climatic and soil data in a ruderal succession G. Matus &amp; B. Tóthmérész Ecological Institute of Kossuth L. University, P.O.Box 71, H-4010 Debrecen, Hungary E-mail: tothmerb @ tigris. klte.hu Keywords: Climatic variability, Disturbance, Eastern Hungary, Nutrient leaching, Sandy pasture, Secondary succession. Abstract: Successional changes of vegetation on an abandoned farm in the 'Nyírség' region (Eastern Hungary) were studied through permanent plots surveyed three times per year from 1990 to 1992. The correlation of the ecological indicator values of the relevés with climatic records and soil characteristics was investigated. 1990 and 1992 were very dry years while 1991 was a humid one. Nevertheless, the indicator values reflecting the climatic background (T, W) changed only slightly. The same is true for the soil reaction (R) value but soil sampling revealed significant changes in pH conditions. The most definite change was detected in the nitrogen (N) value which was associated with the declining supply of available nitrogen in the soil. Vegetation development can be influenced by a decreasing nutrient level rather than by a sharp short-term climatic variability or changing soil reaction of the study period. Post-disturbance management which caused significant differences in composition and abundance relations of the vegetation had only moderate if any effect on the indicator, values. Introduction The general observation that plant species and their communities reflect their environment is the basis of indication theory (Juhász-Nagy 1986). In spite of the apparent and numerous regularities, many problems arise when one attempts to relate a selected species to exactly detected parameters of the environment. That is the reason why empirical scales, the so-called eco- logical indicator values, are often used to describe the ecological requirements of plants (Ellenberg 1950, Zólyomi and Précsényi 1964, Zólyomi et al. 1967). A critical point of this method is that a species living in different communities and occupying large areas does not necessarily indicate the same environmental background in its whole geographical range. Sophisti- cated statistical methods can be used to specify and redefine indicator values for a certain area and phyto- sociological group (Bagi 1987). Vegetation development is at least partially under en- vironmental control. During succession, organisms of various strategy types with their own distinct require- ments for environmental conditions become es- tablished, compete and finally vanish or persist. Primary successional changes are proved to be inter- pretable through the changing pattern of indicator values in stages of the process (Zólyomi et al. 1987). Ruderal weed communities are rather widespread in man-affected habitats and, due to their fast develop- ment, they are appropriate objects to reveal environ- mental driving forces in the development of phytosociologically diverse stands (Felföldy 1942). Successional development of them have attracted the attention of many authors, e.g. Ubrizsy (1955). Animal husbandry is one of the most frequent agents to initiate secondary succession and to establish ruderal associa- tions. The aim of this paper is to judge the relevance of an indicator value system in the pioneer phase of ruderal succession.</page><page sequence="2">8 Matus &amp; Tóthmérész: Indicator values Material and methods Study site The study site is situated 25 km east of Debrecen in the vicinity of the village of Vámospércs. In the spring of 1989, a provisional goose-breeding farm was es- tablished on a dry sand dune area the original vegeta- tion of which was a perennial Cynodonto-F estucetum pasture. The farm was abandoned and its building was demolished in the autumn of the same year. The soil under the former building became thickly covered with goose droppings while the aboveground vegeta- tion of the close surroundings was destroyed almost completely. Two out of the four permanent plots of 3.2x3.2 m size were positioned within the demolished building (A and D) while the other two (B and C) were placed outside. At one of the within-building ones (plot D) the dunged topsoil was removed at the begin- ning. Associations of the 1.5 year long initial phase were characterized by a strong dominance of annual ruderal weed* Later on, the coexistence of numerous life forms and phytosociological groups with more balanced abundance relations developed. A detailed description of the site, its disturbance history and a brief summary of the vegetation development is published elsewhere (Matus and Tóthmérész 1994). Sampling The vegetation of the plots was surveyed three times a year, late April, late June and late September, by es- timation of the total percentage cover and its distribu- tion over the species. No aboveground vegetation was present in April 1990, therefore only two surveys were accomplished that year. Soil samples from 3-8 cm depth were collected yearly after the spring sampling. Ten replicate samples per plot were gathered in equivalent volumes then mixed into one unified sample for each plot. The chemical reaction of samples was measured in KCl solution and contents of available mineral nutrients were deter- mined. In this paper, only the results concerning nitrogen forms (nitrate plus nitrite and ammonium) are discussed. Summed monthly figures of precipitation recorded at the meteorological station of Vámospércs run by the Transtiscian Regional Hydrological Protectorate (TIVIZIG) were used. The meteorological station is situated at 3.5 km to the south-west from the site. The mean monthly temperature scores were registered at the Debrecen-Airport station. These data sets were used to construct the climate diagram (Walter 1970). Data processing The relative cover of species was used to calculate the weighted T, W, R and N ecological indicator values. Calculations were made on a nine-grade scale while in case of water requirement a twelve-grade scale was ap- plied (Ellenberg 1974, 1991, Borhidi 1993). Capsella bursa-pastoris is an indifferent species as to soil reac- tion, thus, we scored it as "5" during the computations. Nomenclature for taxa and syntaxa follows the manual of Soó (1980). Results Meteorological background The mean temperature of the growing season was slightly below average in 1990 and 1991 but was much higher in 1992. Two out of the three study years, 1990 and 1992, were dry with both annual totals and grow- ing season totals far below average (Table 1). The most severe drought during the study took place in August 1992 when no rainfall was recorded at the Vámospércs Table 1. Some climatic characteristics of the study period. Average figures are for 30 and 8 years for Debrecen-Airport and Vámospércs records, respectively. Temperature (°C) Precipitation (mm) Debrecen Debrecen Vámospércs Year April-October year-round April-October year-round April-October 1990 15.6 466 312 540 350 1991 15.6 588 425 681 512 1992 17.1 368 257 532 391 average 15.9 565 376 604 438</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 18(1 994) 9 station. Moreover, it was an extremely hot period with 25 °C mean monthly average temperature recorded at Debrecen. In 1991, there was a more or less average precipitation. The growing season of this year was rather wet; May, July and October were especially rainy, although some shorter periods of the growing season were lacking precipitation (Figure 1). Soil characteristics The pH values of the soil were between 4.6-5.6 Samples were less acidic in 1992 than in the preceding years. In all years plot C proved to be the most acidic one; and the same rank order of pH values (BD AC) was found in the last two years. Great shifts were found in contents of available forms of nitrogen during the study. The site was extremely rich in nitrogen in the first year. The leaching from the dung layer produced a tremendous amount of nitrate plus nitrite and ammonium. Figures exceeded those of well-fertilized ploughlands. The soil of the within- building plots was richer in nitrogen forms than that of the other ones. We found a sharp decline in the topsoil's nitrogen status of all plots by 1991 while by the spring of 1992 both nitrate plus nitrite and am- monium contents became stabilized at 2-5 ppm which is practically a level of nitrogen shortage (Figure 2). Ecological indicator values The highest values of temperature requirement (T) were found in the first year of vegetation development but local maxima were also detected in autumn aspects of consecutive years in plots B and C. The lowest figures are attributed to April and June 1991 at relevés of plot C. Since September of 1991 plot D values were lower than those of the other ones. Water requirement (W) was fluctuating in a relatively narrow range without any clear pattern. The highest figure was calculated in plot C in June 1991 while the minimum was at plot A in June 1992. Figure 1. Climate diagram of the study period. Precipitation figures are from Vámospércs, temperature scores are from the Debrecen- Airport meteorological station.</page><page sequence="4">10 Matus &amp; Tóthmérész: Indicator values Figure 2. Changing soil characteristics based on the analyses of topsoil sampled in late April. pH values were measured in KCl solution. Plots A and D are within the former farm building while plots B and C are on the outside. Figure 3. Alternation of ecological indicator values. T, W, R, and N figures as suggested by Borhidi (1993) were used; cal- culations were based on percentage cover data.</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 18(1 994) 1 1 Soil reaction (R) values have suggested moderately acidic conditions with hardly any fluctuations. Figures of plots B and C were always higher than those of the within-building plots. Signs of a seasonal pattern were only detected in plots A and D in the third growing season with high values in the spring and in the autumn and lower ones in the summer. A well-expressed declining trend in nitrogen demand (N) was detected through the whole study period. The initial phase, characterized with extremely high values, was followed by a period of moderate to low ones. The decrease was non-monotonous; con- siderable fluctuations (except for plot D) could be ob- served in the whole period. At the initial phase, the vegetation of within-building plots was of high nitrogen status while much lower values were detected in plots B and C which are positioned outside the building (Figure 3). Discussion T and W values and climatic parameters The highest values of temperature requirement were found in the dry summer and autumn of 1990 when ruderal pioneer species were dominating; the lowest value was calculated for the rainy summer of 1991. It is conspicuous, however, that T values reached their peak in the first year after disturbance instead of the third and hottest one during the study (1992). Initial phases of ruderal succession are found in habitats of extremely hot microclimatic conditions which favour the establishment of adventive species having a high temperature requirement (Ubrizsy 1955); some of them are even (sub)tropicaK Thus, we may suppose that top T values are the consequence of the warm microclimate of the demolished farm covered with the dark layer of goose droppings rather than the yearly climatic variability. Among the species frequent in the first year, Amaranthus albus , A. retroflexus and Eri- geron canadensis are known as naturalized adventives of North- American origin (Priszter 1960). All are late germinating T4 annuals with high temperature needs (Ujvárosi 1973). Fluctuation of water requirement is far from showing any clear trend although the highest and lowest values coincide with the most rainy period and the most severe drought, respectively. In spite of it, we do not have convincing evidence that climatic circumstances had any direct connection with T and W values. Al- though the obvious short-time climatic variability during the study had an apparent effect on the vegeta- tion in form of extreme fluctuations of total cover, it did not alter the succession in any other easily detec- table way. Thus, the dramatically fast changes of the species dominance of these communities does not nec- essary mean similar abrupt changes in the indicator values of the community. R and N values and soil characteristics We have not found any correlation of soil reaction data and R values. Instead, the vegetation suggested a slight acidification in spite of the increased pH value of the topsoil in the third year. The most obvious change in ecological indicator values was without doubt that of nitrogen demand which may have been caused by the fast leaching of nitrogen compounds from the topsoil. The spatial pat- tern of N values at the start seems to coincide also with the nitrogen supply sampled in the soil. Within-build- ing plots (A and D) were very rich while quadrats out- side the building had much lower levels. The lowest amounts were sampled in plot C which was placed the farthest away from the nutrient source. There is no strong correlation between the timing of processes in the topsoil and in vegetation develop- ment. The nitrogen content of the topsoil is reduced abruptly in the second growing season after distur- bance while the nitrogen status calculated from relevés shows a gradual decline without signs of stabilization even after three years. The fast leaching we found while sampling topsoil is not necessarily true for deeper horizons; we can assume that a substantial amount of nitrogen remained there unleached. An ev- idence to prove this opinion can be that the first species •with low nitrogen requirement ( Anthemis ruthenicay Cerastium semidecandrum, Veronica spp.) were al- most exclusively shallow-rooting annuals while many ruderal weed species ( Amaranthus spp., Descurainia sophia , Erigeron canadensis , Sisymbrium altissimum) are known as deep-rooting (Ujvárosi 1973). Thus, we may think that spatial distribution of nitrogen sup- posed to develop could enable the coexistence of species with rather different nitrogen requirement. Correlation with phytocoenological changes Four main phytosociological groups according to Soó (1980) were distinguished in the pioneer phase of suc- cession (Matus and Tóthmérész 1994). Their domin- ance sequence seems to be correlated with the nutrient status of the soil. Obligate ruderal species (division Chenopodio-Scleranthea ) which are linked to an ex- tremely high nutrient supply were reduced in sig- nificance during the second year when shortage of nitrogen in the topsoil commenced. The group of indif- ferent species (those which belong to the associations of more than one division) which can be interpreted as</page><page sequence="6">1 2 Matus &amp; Tóthmérész: Indicator values competitive plants (Grime 1977, 1979) increased in performance shortly after the disturbance had finished. Species of the Sedo-Corynephoria and Festuco- Bromea , which can be regarded as stress tolerant and belong to climax communities, were evidently subor- dinated during the low stress conditions of the pioneer phase. The increasing nitrogen shortage can be considered as the most significant environmental driving force of the studied successional process. Effect of management As it was demonstrated earlier (Matus and Tóthmérész 1994), the species pool to colonize plot D where goose droppings were removed was basically the same as at the other ones but the dominance of certain phytoso- ciological groups was different; the restricted perfor- mance of Chenopodio-Scleranthetea species was obvious. Those climax grasses ( Festuca pseudovina, Coryneophorus canescens) which established ex- clusively in this plot were still subordinated with low cover walues and therefore did not affect the indicator values (Matus and Tóthmérész 1994). No apparent ef- fect compared with untreated plots was found in W and R values, and only slight differences, as probable ef- fects of management, were detected in T and N demands. The lowest value of temperature require- ment was that of plot D since the autumn of the second growing season. Nitrogen requirement of vegetation could be characterized with a constant decline in plot D while in the other ones extended fluctuations were found. Acknowledgements: We are indebted to Prof. I. Précsényi for his help and useful advice. Thanks are due to I. Berki at the Meteorological Institute of KLTE who collected meteorological data for the city of Debrecen and provided us climatological literature and commented on the results of soil analyses. We are thankful to G. Búti, Zs. Kovács and their colleagues who made the meteorological data of TIVIZIG available to us. We would like to acknowledge the help of I. Gyarmathy who gave permission for our research on behalf of the Protectorate of the Hortobágy National Park. The research of the first author was supported by the Hungarian Research Fund (OTKÁ F5063). References Bagi I. 1987. Statistical relationships between the ordination of coe- nological relevés and characteristic indicator values. Acta Bot.. Hung. 33(3-4): 199-210. Borhidi A. 1993. Social behaviour types of the Hungarian flora, its naturalness and relative ecological indicator values. Pécs. Ellenberg, H. 1950. Unkrautgemeinschaften als Zeiger für Klima und Boden. Landwirtschaftliche Pflanzensoziologie 1., Ulmer, Stuttgart Ellenberg, H. 1974. Zeigerwerte der Gefasspflanzen Mitteleuropas. Scripta Geobotanica IX, Goltze Vrl. Göttingen. Ellenberg, H., Weber, H.E., Düll, R., Wirth, W., Werner, W. und Paulissen, D. 1991. Zeigerwerte von Pflanzen in Mitteleuropa. Scripta Geobotanica XVIII, Goltze Vrl., Göttingen. Felföldy L. 1942. Szociológiai vizsgálatok a pannoniai flórateríilet gyomvegetációján (Phytosociological investigations on weed vegetation of the Pannonian flora region). Acta Geobot. Hung. 5:87-140. Grime, J. P. 1977. Évidence for the existence of three primary strategies in plants and its relevance to ecological and evolution- ary theory. Amer. Nat. 1 1 1 : 11 69- 1 1 94. Grime, J.P. 1979. Plant strategies and vegetation processes. Wiley, Chichester. Juhász-Nagy, P 1986. Egy operativ ôkológia hiánya, szükséglete és feladatai (Lack, need and tasks of an operative ecology). Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest. Matus, G. and Tóthmérész, B. 1994. Pioneer phase of succession in a ruderal weed community. Acta Bot. Hung, (to appear). Priszter Sz. 1960. Adventiv gyomnôvényeink (Adventive weeds of Hungary). Keszthelyi Mezõgazdasági Akadémia Kiadványai 7 : 3-37. Soó, R. 1980. A magyar flóra és vegetáció rendszertani- nôvényfôldrajzi kézikônyve VI. (Taxonomical and geobotani- cal handbook of the Hungarian flora and vegetation. Volume VI). Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest. Ubrizsy, G. 1955. Magyarország ruderális gyomnôvénytársulásai II. Ôkológiai és szukcesszió-tanulmányok. (Ruderal weed associ- ations in Hungary II. Studies on ecology and succession). Nôvénytermelés 4: 109-126. Ujvárosi, M. 1973. Gyomnôvények (Weeds). Mezõgazdasági Kiadó, Budapest. Walter, H. 1970. Vegetationszonen und Klima. VEB Gustav Fischer Verlag, Jena. Zólyomi, B. und Précsényi, I. 1964. Methode zur ökologischen Cha- racterisierung der Vegetationseinheiten und zum Vergleich der Standorte. Acta Bot. Hung. 10: 377-416. Zólyomi, B., Baráth, Z., Fekete, G., Jakucs, P. Kárpáti, I., Kárpáti, V., Kovács, M., and Máthé, 1. 1 967: Einreichung von 1 400 Arten der ungarischen Flora in ökologischen Gruppen nach TWR- Zahlen. Fragm. Bot. Mus. Hist. Nat. Hung. 4: 101-142. Zólyomi, B., Précsényi, I., Bodnár, T. és Vadkerti, E. 1987. Az ôkológiai indikátorszámok mintázatának változása szukcesszió alatt. (Changes in pattern of ecological indicator values during succession). Botanikai Kôzlemények 74-75: 101-109.</page></plain_text>