<plain_text><page sequence="1">Cytologie Smear Preparation There are several methods of smear preparation for cytologie evaluation; the choice should be appropriate for the sample collection method used and the characteristics of the sample. Pull method: Place a small amount of sample on a clean glass slide, cover with another glass slide and allow the sample to "naturally" spread out. Separate the two slides by simply pulling them apart (do not lift one off the other to separate.) Squash method: Because some samples have a large cellular content and will not spread naturally the "squash" method is necessary. The procedure is much the same, except that you must apply pressure to the two sides and "squash" the sample in order for it to spread onto the slide. Only apply enough pressure to cause the sample to spread and not cause excessive cell destruction. Direct method: For aspirates that are very low in cellular content or are thin in consistency, centrifugation for sediment and preparation of a slide similar to a blood smear will be most useful. Touch or impression method: Biopsy or necropsy samples are best made by the direct method of simply touching the tissue to the slide in several places, utilizing most of the available area. It is very important to blot the sample on a clean paper towel or other absorbent paper prior to making the impression in order to obtain a thin smear. In our experience, the absolute optimal cytologie slide is one which provides a mono-layer of cells throughout the smear, with the exception of those that are very low in cellular content. The two most common errors are: 1) the sample is too thick on the slide. This is generally due to excessive blood from insufficient "blotting" of the tissue prior to the impressions 2) only a single slide is submitted. This creates a problem because there is nothing left to work with if the stain chosen is found to be negative. When making these smears it is so easy to make two or three slides at once than to have to go back later (if that option is available at all). Multiple slides provide the option for multiple staining techniques; you may want to save some for a collection. ? Rosalie Lane, Hawthorne, California (From Proceedings 16th Seminar for Veterinary Technicians, Western Veterinary Conference, 1987)</page></plain_text>