<plain_text><page sequence="1">Avian Conservation Neus By Susan Wells, DVM Update on the Thick-billed Parrot The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service is heading up a project to re- introduce the Thick-billed Parrot to the southwestern United States. Of the 209 birds released in 1986 in New Mexico, some have succumbed to predation and others have migrated. One group of 8 birds returned to the release site in the fall of 1987 after migrating to another part of the state. Additional birds, equipped with radio collars, have recently been introduced to the flock. The program's success will depend on keeping track of the flock and establishing a captive population that can be utilized to supplement the wild population. As part of the species survival plan (SSP) for the Thick-billed Parrot, a studbook has been compiled and distributed to in- stitutions holding this species. The studbook currently lists 54 birds (29 males, 25 females) held by North American zoos and private aviculturists. Status of the Hyacinth Macaw A recent survey sponsored by the World Wildlife Fund and the New York Zoological Society estimates the current Hyacinth Macaw population is between 2500 and 5000 birds. The survey was conducted in regions of Brazil, Bolivia, and Paraguay where the bird is or was thought to be numerous. Most of the birds sighted were in Brazil. Only 100-300 are estimated to remain in Bolivia and 2 birds were seen in Paraguay. The Hyacinth population decline is attributed to international trade, local commerce and habitat loss. Adorned with brilliant blue plumage, the Hyacinth is the largest parrot species and has been in demand worldwide, most recently in Asia and Europe. Until the early 1980's, the United States was the principal market. At the recent CITES meeting in Ottawa, member countries voted to transfer the Hyacinth from Appendix II (Threatened) to Appendix I (En- dangered) which should help to cur- tail commercial trade. By Robert Groskin, DVM Hawks Exhibit Group Hunting Harris Hawks residing in New Mex- ico have been observed hunting rab- bits in a cooperative fashion. Group hunting is well known in mammals such as lions, hyenas and wolves. This study is the first to document groups of 4-6 hawks working cooperatively to chase rabbits, flush them out from under cover, or con- fuse them by attacking from different directions. The hawks are able to work together to hunt and kill readily available prey that each alone would have virtually no chance of capturing. With the development of a stable, non-migratory population of Harris Hawks, this type of social structure and interaction is possible. laparoscopic biopsy signs of Thymoma Thyroid tumors vs. goiter Toucans breeding of ergot poisoning in handraising of Trichomoniasis in cockatiels Tuberculosis of eyelid Tumors (see Neoplasia) Urea, plasma, efficacy for Uric acid, interpretation of Urogenital tumors Uropygial gland adenoma and carcinoma 164 163 160 164 164 170 203 170 203 213 197 121 163 115 USDA quarantine bands, interpretation Vitamin A deficiency and feather folliculitis Vitamin D synthesis with artificial light Wound healing live yeast-cell derivative Xanthoma species affected treatment of Zovirax (see acyclovir) 130 202 60 172 115 115 108 AAV TODAY</page></plain_text>