<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 21(2):275-288, 1997 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest Effects of elevated carbon dioxide on British native grassland species and communities R. Hunt, J. P. Grime, S. Díaz1, G. M. Spring, J. H. C. Cornelissen &amp; R. L. Colasanti2 The NERC Unit of Comparative Plant Ecology, Department of Animal and Plant Sciences, The University, Sheffield S 10 2TN, UK. Present addresses: 1 Instituto Multidisciplinario de Biología Vegetal, Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Vêlez Sársfield 299, C. Correo 495, 5000 Córdoba Argentina; 2 Department of Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence, University of Sussex, F almer, Brighton BNl 9RH, UK. Keywords: Communities, Ecosystems, Functional types, Interactions, Modelling, Screening. Abstract: The implications of current climate-change scenarios for British species and communities are not straightforward: short-term effects may be mediated by longer term source-sink interactions; what species do in isolation may not match what they do under competitive conditions; communi ty-le vel responses may be mediated by herbivory and soil microbiology; ecosystem-level responses may be overridden by direct or indirect human activity. This article reviews UGPE findings in these areas since 1987. In single-species screening of herbaceous species, strong responses to elevated CO2 occur mainly in robust, fast-growing perennials, though smaller-scale studies do not necessarily support this trend. In woody species screening, increases under elevated CO2 are higher in deciduous species than in evergreen ones. Time-course experiments show that species which are non-responsive in the long term can respond in the shorter term, and that external mineral nutrient level is also important. Elevating CO2 at above-ambient temperatures promotes CC&gt;2-responsiveness in lower-yielding herbaceous species, except where defoliation is also present when recovery is better in higher-yielding species. In laboratory microcosms on native soil, fast-growing species do not increase in relative abundance under elevated CO2 because there appears to be mineral nutrient sequestration by the expanded microflora. In Baby-FACE field microcosms, elevated CO2 has no significant effect on community composition unless accompanied by elevated temperature and/or by added nutrients. Nutrient additions lead to much bigger gains in non-mycorrhizal species than in mycorrhizal ones. Field microcosms with artificial crevices show a differential effect of natural summer drought on contrasted species. CO2 screening experiments can be paralleled by similar work on sulphur dioxide and on ozone. In both of these gases, plant response is strongly and inversely related to seedling growth rate. This contrasts with the pattern found under elevated CO2, which appears to depend upon a combination of plant physiology plus evolutionary history. Responsiveness to CO2 also helps to identify basic 'functional types' and multivariate methods can show that competitive species depend upon high lateral spread, long life history, high responsiveness to elevated CO2, and inbreeding reproduction. Expert-system models can predict outline responses of vegetation to climate and management changes, and cellular automata successfully mimic plant morphology and function in relation to resource acquisition and utilisation within component modules. Plant community responses to elevated CO2 are now being seen less and less as the products of the responsiveness of the component species measured in isolation and more, for example, as the product of habitat richness, especially in respect of mineral nutrients.</page><page sequence="2">276 Hunt et al.: Effects of elevated carbon-dioxide Introduction Climate-change scenarios for the next century in the UK involve many changes: rises in mean temperature, warmer and drier summers, and more variable patterns in rainfall and temperature, leading to more droughts and more impact from any late- season frosts. The big- gest single driving force in all of this is the enhanced 'greenhouse effect' caused by increases in atmos- pheric carbon dioxide (CO2). It is widely known that before the Industrial Revolution there were about 270 vpm (volumes per million) of CO2 in the atmosphere. This has now risen to around 360 vpm, chiefly because of fossil fuel burning. Whatever current policies and treaties manage to achieve, the Climatic Research Unit at the University of East Anglia predicts that under 'medium' socio-economic assumptions, the ambient CO2 level could easily rise to above 500 vpm by the middle of the next century and to above 700 vpm by the year 2100 (DOE 1996). Because CO2 is an essen- tial resource for photosynthesis, the reaction of plant life to these elevated levels may be crucial in deciding how our future grassland flora, and then fauna, will be- have. The implications of these changes for British species and communities are not straightforward, however. First, it would be tempting to ascribe overriding sig- nificance to the differences between the short-term photosynthetic and respiratory responses of individual species to elevated CO2 (e.g. Farquhar &amp; von Caem- merer 1982; Cure &amp; Adcock 1986). However, Stitt ( 1993) has pointed out that even though short-term ef- fects may be mediated by photosynthesis, in the longer term there are also more indirect effects of CO2 which are mediated by source-sink interactions, i.e. it be- comes important to know what exactly the different kinds of species do with any increased supplies of car- bohydrate. Second, what the different species do in isolation, even in the long-term, may not match what they do when grown under competitive conditions. Bazzaz (1993) demonstrated that even though some species may ex- hibit little increase in growth when grown in isolation under elevated CO2, in competition they would not necessarily lose position to more CCVresponsive species because they might also be able to call upon differences in initial growth rate, in allocation, and in efficiency of resource uptake. Third, even the community level of organization is not the ultimate level of complexity encountered by plants in their natural habitats. Real plants grow in real soils and encounter real herbivores. Grime ( 1 996) noted that we must expect to see feedbacks in response to elevated CO2 under such conditions and that species responses within whole ecosystems are likely to be in- fluenced by factors such as soil microbiology which are additional to those (such as sink strength) which emerge as key factors in simple laboratory assays. Fourth, there may be an overriding effect of factors which are only indirectly related to climate change, if at all. At the present time, one of the most potent forces for change acting upon vegetation is the effect of land- use (Grime 1996). Direct effects of human activity (habitat destruction by agriculture, forestry, industry, human settlements, overgrazing) and also the indirect effects (eutrophication through ground water and at- mospheric pollutants, and phytotoxicity resulting from aerial and soil contamination) all play their part. Vegetation is already experiencing such radical processes of change that the impacts due to CO2 may only amount to a fine-tuning. The rates and trajectories of changes which are already well under way may primarily be driven, not by CO2 increase or by the other climatic changes associated with it, but by new patterns of landuse. These management changes are likely to be an essential factor in any calculations we make concerning directions and rates of change in vegetation responses to elevated CO2. The Unit of Comparative Plant Ecology at Sheffield (UCPE) has been active in most of these areas of study since 1987 and the present paper gives a brief over- view of the relevant work. Single species screening: herbaceous species During the period 1984-87 the UCPE conceived its 'Integrated Screening Programme' (ISP). This initia- tive, still running, is an ambitious comparative study of ecologically and economically important plants from the UK and abroad. The ISP's rationale and methods have been presented by Hendry &amp; Grime (1993). The main purpose of the ISP is to develop a broad perspec- tive and a predictive framework for the management and exploitation of vegetation, and for diagnosis of regional and global problems. In practice, the ISP con- sists of a series of tests (currently almost 200 in num- ber) involving up to 45 species at a time (e.g. Grime and 34 others, 1997). These tests cover such diverse plant characteristics as germination requirements, photosynthetic responses, growth under various en- vironmental conditions, and tolerance of particular at- mospheric or soil toxins. When the ISP was launched in 1987 it was decided to include CO2 studies from the outset. A long series of CO2 screening experiments was car- ried out at Horticulture Research International's</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 21 (1 997) 277 Figure 1. The relation between CC&gt;2-responsiveness and C- S-R plant strategy in 36 herbaceous species (from Hunt et al. 1993). The index P540/350 is the percentage increase in whole-plant yield predicted from measurements at a nominal concentration of 350 vpm and that predicted for the year 2050 (540 vpm). Plant strategy is expressed as a C- radius, defined as distance from the pure 'competitive' strategy and estimated on a four-point scale (see Hunt et al. 1993 for further details). Each point represents one species, but six of the more responsive species are means of two separate determinations. The line is the fitted response of P540/350 to the C-radius classification; it is significant at P = 0.017. former site at Littlehampton (with Dr D. W. Hand and Mr M. A. Hannah). These eventually covered 36 dif- ferent species, all grown singly in sand/solution cul- ture over a relatively large part of their life-history and with many of them later re-studied to provide confir- mation. In the HRI glasshouse cabinets there were strong responses to elevated CO2 at a temperature of 18°C (Figure 1). In some species there was a 27% in- crease in biomass after 8 weeks' growth. However, such levels of response mainly occurred in robust, fast- growing perennials of the kind which often dominate not grassland, but vegetation in productive and undis- turbed habitats, e.g. river banks and recently aban- doned farmland and gardens. This was an interesting outcome, because we already knew that this type of plant has been increasing in abundance in Britain in recent decades (Hodgson 1986, 1989). We had been assuming that these changes were simply the result of eutrophication and altered land use, but we now wonder whether the 'strong competitors' owe at least some of their recent success to re-inforcement of landuse changes by a further form of eutrophication: rising CO2. If this were to be the case, it would be an instance of landuse changes and CO2 responsiveness apparently acting in the same direction. However, it is not easy to apportion sig- nificance to the two effects. As it is very unlikely that CO2 responses as high as +27% could persist in peren- nial, competitive vegetation, we are forced to conclude that although landuse change may initially act as a reinforcement of the CO2 effect, it may also eventually act as a regulator on the performance of C02-respon- sive species. Work of such generality can only be undertaken by means of multi-species studies, like those in the ISP. It would be easy to be misled by smaller-scale work in- volving only a handful of unrepresentative species. For example, Figure 2 shows how the 'whole' trend across a large number of hypothetical species (i.e. the trendline that models all of the points in the diagram) could very well be missed or mis-interpreted if data were available on only a few of these species (e.g. those groups represented by the various solid sym- bols). Measurements of the effect of elevated CO2 on dry matter production of many different species are abun- dant in the scientific literature, but care is always re- quired in drawing comparisons. The results can vary according to the duration of the experiment, the CO2 concentrations used and the background conditions of temperature, moisture and mineral nutrient supply. Consistent comparative work of the kind conducted at HRI Littlehampton is needed. However, some broad generalizations have already been drawn from litera- ture reviews. In a survey of published data for 156 species, for example, Poorter (1993) concluded that a marked stimulation of yield was particularly as- sociated with the C3 photosynthesis pathway, with nutrient-demanding crops and with nitrogen-fixing species. An updated study involving 256 species (Poorter et al. 1996) supported these earlier con- Figure 2. Is the CO2 response linked to competitiveness? - the answer may depend on how many species have been studied (the 'real' trend is shown by the solid line).</page><page sequence="4">278 Hunt et al. : Effects of elevated carbon-dioxide elusions, but also appeared to refute some of the sub- tler trends identified in the UCPE study. However, Poorter's 1996 collection of data was drawn from a wide variety of levels of elevated CO2 (600 to 800 vpm) and included measurements made over time in- tervals that varied from as little 9 days to as much as 189 days. When it comes to testing the subtler forms of generalization, such as a possible link to C-S-R strategy theory, the usefulness of such poorly-con- trolled comparisons must be questioned. Single-species screening: woody species Because of agricultural overproduction, increasing areas of grassland and arable fields north-western Europe are now left derelict. In many cases a natural or managed succession towards shrubland, and then woodland, is taking place. This process may continue well into the next century and will, therefore, coincide with the above-mentioned rises in atmospheric CO2. This may differentially affect the establishment of woody species during the succession, so it is important to know whether any CO2 responses that affect com- petitivness, such as enhanced growth rate or stature, follow any particular pattern among woody species. In the existing literature the vast differences in ex- perimental methodology, age or size of material, level of CO2 enrichment, and duration of experiment make it difficult to compare the responses of the large num- ber of woody species already investigated (e.g. Ceulemans &amp; Mousseau 1994, Poorter et al. 1996). Experimental studies on seedling responses to C02 in- volving more than four woody species at a time are rare and have been restricted to studies of specific taxonomie or functional groups (e.g. Bazzaz &amp; Miao 1993, Mortensen 1994). At UCPE, we have made a first attempt to fill this hiatus, by simultaneously screening the seedling responses of eight common na- tives to Great Britain (or successful aliens) which dif- fer widely in ecology, taxonomy and relative growth rate (RGR, cf. Cornelissen et al. in press). The species comprised the deciduous trees Acer pseudoplatanus, Fagus sylvatica and Fraxinus excelsior , the deciduous shrub Buddleja davidii , the evergreen shrubs Prunus laurocerasus and Ulex gallii and the evergreen trees Ilex aquifolium and Taxus baccata. We took one- to two-month-old seedlings (one-year- old in the case of the very slow-growing Ilex and Taxus), all of which were of comparable ontogenetic phase, and grew them in transparent outdoor chambers maintained at either 350 vpm or at 700 vpm C02. These chambers had light and temperature regimes similar to those encountered in derelict agricultural land. We grew the plants as realistically as possible for 8 weeks in 6-litre containers, using a standard sand- soil-peat mixture to which was added a small in- noculum of fresh litter from each species' native site (to allow any mycorrhizal associations to develop). Slow-release NPK pellets were also added and all pots were watered frequently. Although knowing the CCVresponsiveness of these eight species does not allow us to scale-up to the level of plant functional types, some general patterns of ecological significance can already be seen. For in- stance, the increase in mean RGR under elevated CO2 was almost twice as much in the four deciduous species (at +0.0081 day"1) than in the four evergreen species (at +0.0044 day"1), a difference significant at P&lt; 0.05. This finding is consistent with the published data reviewed by Poorter et al. (1996). A possible ex- planation for this difference is that deciduous woody species are generally more fast-growing than evergreens (Cornelissen et al. in press). The mechanism responsible for this difference may be that many fast-growing plants invest much of their photosynthate back into productive leaf tissues and, for such plants, higher carbon availability would thus lead to large growth responses (cf. Hunt et al. 1991, 1993, 1995, Poorter et al. 1996). There was a positive but non-significant trend across all species (r= 0.59) between RGR in the ambient and that in the elevated conditions. This trend, however, depended heavily upon data from the very fast-grow- ing shrub Buddleja davidii , which, in its first year, resembles a herbaceous plant (i.e. having little lig- nification of its stem and branches). Interestingly, this was the only species in the experiment with a ruderal (or early-successional) strategy and a few of the CO2- enriched plants had developed inflorescences by the end of the experiment. As Bazzaz &amp; Miao (1993) also reported relatively large seedling growth responses to CO2 among early-successional tree species (though only at high nutrient availability), we now need further experimental data to test for any general relation bet- ween successional status and CO2 response. Among the data for the 63, mostly herbaceous, species reviewed by Poorter et al. (1996), there were no CO2- induced responses seen with respect to the allocation of biomass to different plant parts. Woody species, with their relatively high proportion of carbon-rich stems and branches, could be hypothesized to possess a potential sink for extra carbon at elevated CO2. However, among our eight species, no significant al- location response emerged either. In contrast, there were clear and general responses in morphology. For instance, across all species (when disregarding the leafless Ulex) the mean specific leaf area (leaf area -5-</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 21 (1 997) 279 Figure 3. Reductions in mean specific leaf area in seven woody species grown under elevated CO2 (data of JHC Cornelissen and A Camelli, unpubl.). The seven species are Acer pseudoplatanus, Buddleja davidii, Fagus sylvatica, Fraxi- nus excelsior, Ilex aquifolium, Prunus laurocerasus and Ta- xus baccata. leaf dry weight) was lower as a result of C02-enrich- ment (Figure 3), and this was not just an allometric consequence of the greater leaf size seen at elevated C02. We are currently analysing these leaves in more detail in order to find out whether the extra carbon is locked up in compounds related to photosynthesis, to storage or to defences against herbivores or other impacts (cf. Wong 1990). This may illuminate the function of extra foliar carbon and allow us to predict to what extent en- hanced growth rates might be maintained as plants age further. Again, the lower specific leaf area under CO2 enrichment accords with findings from herbaceous plants (Poorter et al. 1996). It appears that herbaceous plants and woody seedlings both show comparable responses in this respect. Within the woody flora as a whole the emerging patterns of growth, allocation and morphology are ones of similarity rather than differen- tiation in comparison with herbaceous species. However, the systematic screening of more woody species may reveal more subtle, but ecologically im- portant, variations Environmental interactions: time and nutrients Despite a general trend which clearly associates CO2- responsiveness with 'competitiveness' in herbaceous species, other UCPE/HRI experiments involving time- course studies on single species have shown that some species which are non-responsive in the long term do, nonetheless, respond in the shorter term. External mineral nutrient level is also very important, as Linder &amp; McDonald (1993) have emphasized. For example, Arrhenatherum elatius (a fast-growing perennial grass) showed a strong response to elevated CO2 over 56 days in the ISP tests performed by UCPE (Hunt et al. 1991, 1993), and this was confirmed by a more detailed time-course test performed by Hunt et al. (1995) (Figure 4). But Poa annua , a fast-growing annual grass which showed no appreciable response in the ISP tests, gave an appreciable positive response to CO2 in the early stages of the time-course test, though this soon disappeared. In fact, under a low-nutrient regime the response eventually became negative (the CC&gt;2-treated plants did less well than the untreated ones). The cause of this apparent downregulation of the CO2 response in plants such as Poa annua has not yet been explained, but such a response is entirely con- sistent with evolutionary strategy of this fast-growing, short-lived, high-seeding species. Environmental interactions: temperature Joint experiments with the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology's Bangor Research Unit (Drs T. W. Ashenden and C. M. Stirling) and with the University College of North Wales at Bangor (Professor J. A. Farrar and Dr S Gunn), have been done under the auspices of NERC's TIGER programme (the 'Terrestrial Initiative in Global Environmental Research'). These tests ex- amined the CCVtemperature interaction in over 40 species in screening experiments at ITE' s Solardome site at Aber, N. Wales. They revealed that the response to elevated CO2 at ambient temperature (which averaged about 18°C) was a slight, but distinct one (Figure 5a). However, it was a surprise to find that with a temperature elevation to ambient=i-30C this pattern</page><page sequence="6">280 Hunt et al.: Effects of elevated carbon-dioxide Figure 4. Time-course studies show that some species (e.g. Arrhenatherum elatius) are responsive to elevated CO2 in both the long and the short term; others (e.g. Poa annua) only respond in the short term; external mineral nutrient level is also important. Figure 5. An experiment in the ITE Bangor Solardomes screened 43 British herbaceous species for responses to elevated CO2 (690 vpm), to elevated temperature (am- bient+3°C), and to defoliation (50% of leaves removed at ap- prox. half the expected final biomass). Each point on these diagrams is the final yield (g) for a single species after 8 weeks growth, with the y-vari- able indicating yield under elevated CO2 and the jc-variable indicating yield under ambient. The broken line shows the 1:1 trend and the solid line shows the mean experimental trend. Part (a) shows that the mean trend in otherwise untreated plants is a slight over-all response to CO2; in (b) the ad- dition of warming promotes CO2 responses in low-yielding species; in (c) the defoliation regime dominates and no over- all CO2 response is seen; in (d) the elevated CO2 plus warming helps high-yielding species to recover after defoliation.</page><page sequence="7">Abstracta Botanica 21 (1 997) 28 1 was reversed (Figure 5b): the 'competitors' became the less responsive group and the extra warming promoted CCVresponsiveness in the lower-yielding species. Because most of the climate-change scenarios for the UK involve increases in both CO2 and tempera- ture, this means that we may need to re-think some of our former predictions. Under a defoliation treatment, however, (with 50% of above-ground biomass removed half-way to the expected final biomass) there was no demonstrable effect of elevated C02 at ambient temperature (Figure 5c). However, there was a marked recovery in the higher-yielding species if the tempera- ture also was elevated (Figure 5d). Community microcosms: effects of microflora The need for caution in extrapolating from the respon- ses of individual potted plants in growth chambers to the dynamics of communities of plants in the field is self-evident. The majority of laboratory studies (in- cluding our own ISP) are designed to operate under standardized conditions to facilitate comparison and interpretation. Realism is sacrificed to the extent that the complexities of season, weather, soil microbiol- ogy, decomposition, nutrient dynamics, interspecific competition and plant-animal interactions are ex- cluded. However, recent studies on multispecies as- semblages suggest that the responses of natural systems may not be predictable from the results ob- served in experiments on plant growing in isolation in artificial environments. Under more realistic condi- tions, processes of competition between different kinds of plants, and interactions with soil microflora and herbivores, come into play. These cast doubt on whether plant-level responses can be directly scaled up to the ecosystem level (Körner 1993, Díaz 1995, Koch &amp; Mooney 1996). Some insights into the complications that can arise when attention is turned to 'real' systems have emerged from experiments such as that of Diaz et al. (1993). There, early-successional plant communities were allowed to regenerate from natural seed banks in samples of native soil that had been removed to laboratory microcosms and held under elevated CO2. Against the predictions that might have been made from single-species experiments, fast-growing species did not increase in relative abundance in the com- munity. Mineral nutrient constraints which limit the fertiliser effect of elevated C02, appeared to be present in this otherwise fertile soil (Figure 6). Diaz et al. (1993) suggested there might be a feedback mechanism whereby elevated CO2 causes an increase in substrate release into the rhizosphere by non-mycor- rhizal, early-successional plants. This could lead to mineral nutrient sequestration by the expanded Figure 6. Concentrations of nitrogen in leaves of Rumex ob- tusifolius : elevated CO2 reduces the concentration whether or not the plants are additionally fertilized. microflora and consequently to nutritional limitation of plant growth. Although this mechanism is probably not universal (see for example Zak et al. 1994), it is likely to be operating in other systems (Rouhier et al. 1994, Owensby et al. 1994, 1996). In communities in which increased availability of car- bon is not accompanied by increased availability of nutrients, plants with root symbionts can be expected to be favoured. Recent experiments on mixtures of mycorrhizal or nodulating plants and non-symbiotic plants seem to confirm these predictions (see the review by Diaz 1996). In the microcosm experiment described above, the increase in leaf C:N ratio under elevated CO2 was much greater in non-mycorrhizal plants than in mycorrhizal ones (30% and 10%, respec- tively). Community microcosms: gaps in the vegetation No laboratory in the C02 impacts community in Britain is able to conduct full-scale CO2 enhancement experiments under outdoor conditions. The so-called FACE experiments (Free-Air CO2 Enrichment) are enormously expensive to set up and maintain (Hendry et al. 1993; McLeod 1993) and, in natural vegetation, may need to run for many years before useful results emerge. FACE experiments, however, cause minimal disruption to the target vegetation and this is very at- tractive to ecologists. So UCPE has tried to beat the odds with 'Baby FACE' a miniature, short-term, free- air design (designed with the assistance of Dr G. H. Priestman of the University of Sheffield's Department of Control and Process Engineering).</page><page sequence="8">282 Hunt et al.: Effects of elevated carbon-dioxide The Baby-FACE design comprises a set of 200 mm diameter artificial gaps (Figure 7) set into the existing limestone grassland at the UCPE Climate Change Im- pacts Laboratory at Buxton, N. Derbyshire (Spring, Priestman &amp; Grime 1996). Gaps of these dimensions have been shown to be the minimum necessary to secure effective seedling recruitment in this vegetation (Hillier 1990). Each gap was made by removing all of the above-ground plant material and the leaf litter layer, and the soil was then disturbed to 50 mm depth. Roots and rhizomes were also removed. The surround- ing vegetation was prevented from collapsing into the gap by means of a cylinder of coarse plastic mesh. Air enriched with additional CO2 was introduced through an aerial loop of perforated copper tubing. During a four-month fumigation experiment it was found that 64% of the 'elevated' fumigation fell within 70 vpm of the target level of 700 vpm. The consumption of liquid CO2 by 20 such gaps over this period was only 137 kg. Further environmental treatments, in the form of fer- tilizer additions and soil heating were also applied. Each gap in the experiment was sown with 40 seeds of each of six species native to the site (to supplement recruitment from the natural seed bank). After four months, the total plant biomass and number of in- dividuals in the various gaps was found to be strongly affected by the different treatment combinations (Figure 8). The addition of CO2 alone had no sig- nificant effect of the structure of the new gap com- munity, but when extra CO2 was accompanied by elevated temperature and/or by added nutrients, it did have such an effect. Further, the effects on plant growth differed according to whether the species were mycorrhizal or not: the added nutrients produced much bigger gains in the non-mycorrhizal species than in the mycorrhizal ones. The CO2 enrichment produced a similar bias towards non-mycorrhizal species, but only if added nutrients were also present. Community microcosms: soil crevices and nutrient additions In hillside grasslands the natural soil profiles can be very variable, ranging in depth from a few centimetres to many metres. Soil crevices offer a potentially im- portant source of both water and nutrients to plant life and, as both of these resources have demonstrably im- portant interactions with elevated CO2, it seems relevant to simulate soil crevices in community microcosm experiments. The microcosm containers developed for this kind of work were 80-litre black plastic refuse bins. A thick plywood shelf was inserted part- way down the interior of each bin to support the soil. The shelf was marked- out into 12 sectors, as shown in Figure 9a. There were two designs of shelf: (i) those which had a large drainage hole cut into each of six random sectors, thus providing a constant, drained soil depth across the whole microcosm, and (ii) those in which these ran- dom drainage holes were replaced by lengths of soil- filled PVC pipe suspended below the shelf (Figure 9b). The second design also had wooden blocks embedded Figure 7. Diagram showing the structure of the 200-mm-diameter experimental gaps in the Baby-FACE regime (from Springta/. 1996).</page><page sequence="9">Abstracta Botanica 21 (1 997) 283 Figure 8. Effects of CO2, nutrients and temperature on seedling biomass in the 'Baby FACE' experiment (after Springta/. 1996). in the soil profile above the shelf to compensate exact- ly for the additional soil volume added by the soil- filled pipes hanging beneath. All of the experimental bins thus had equal volumes of soil which were avail- able for plant growth. In half of the bins this soil was uniformly distributed, but in the other half it was high- ly 'creviced'. In addition, half of the bins received nutrient additions and half received elevated CO2 Figure 9. Plan (a) and vertical section (b) of the apparatus for achieving variable soil depth ('artificial crevices') in the Baby-FACE regime (Spring et al. unpubl.). (using a slightly scaled-up version of the Baby-FACE technology). The plant community which was established in these microcosms comprised 12 individuals of each of six species which are native to the site: two tap-rooted forbs ( Plantago lanceolata and Scabiosa columbaria ), two fibrous-rooted grasses (Festuca ovina and Helic- totrichon pratense) and two fibrous-rooted sedges (Car ex panic ea and Car ex fiacca). Preliminary data from this experiment reveal a differential effect of a natural summer drought on the contrasted species. The relative water content, RWC = (fresh weight - dry weight)/(turgid weight - dry weight), was measured on small samples of all leaf material. The Festuca ovina (Figurev 10a), while not showing any visible signs of drought stress, experienced a RWC which fell below 1.0 in all treatments, though only marginally so in the case of treatments without added nutrients. In this grass, the presence or not of soil crevices was impor- tant only at ambient C02 and without added nutrients. The forb Scabiosa columbaria (Figure 10b), however, experienced marked reductions in RWC in all treat- ments, and the presence of crevices added appreciably to this effect when there were no added nutrients. In the absence of added nutrients, elevated CO2 ameliorated the adverse effects of drought only in Scabiosa columbaria. However, such an amelioration was evident in both species when added nutrients were present. Ecosystem studies Another factor that may influence the responses to elevated CO2 are the interactions that can occur with</page><page sequence="10">284 Hunt et al.: Effects of elevated carbon-dioxide Figure 10. Performance of (a) Festuca ovina and (b) Scabiosa columbaria with and without variable soil depth ('artificial crevices'). The relative water content (RWC) fell below 1.0 in all treatments, though only marginally so in the case of treatments without added nutrients. In F. ovina , the presence or not of crevices was important only at am- bient CO2 and without added nutrients. In S. columbaria , however, there were marked reductions in RWC in all treat- ments, and the presence of crevices added appreciably to this effect when there were no added nutrients. animal consumers. In most pot studies, elevated CO2 increases C:N ratios and thus lowers the nutritional quality of plant tissue (Koch &amp; Mooney 1996). Altered feeding patterns may then impact on plant community composition. Most studies of the effects of elevated CO2 on plant-herbivore interactions have reported decreases in plant nutritional quality, and also decreased herbivore fitness and/or increased consump- tion of plant biomass (e.g. Stuhlfauth et al. 1987, Fajer et al 1991, Lincoln et al. 1993, Lindroth et al. 1995). However, the vast majority of these studies involved specialist phytophagous insects and/or plants which have been grown in isolation. Studies at the community level, in which generalist herbivores can choose among species, are still ex- tremely rare. A recent UCPE microcosm experiment involved a mixture of fast- and slow-growing her- baceous plants which were raised on soil under fac- torial combinations of CO2 concentration and nutrient fertilisation, and in the presence or otherwise of generalist invertebrate herbivores (Diaz et al. , un- publ.). No effect of CO2 on plant palatability or her- bivory was found. Arnone et al. (1995) reported similar results from work involving a generalist insect herbivore and a mixture of tropical plants growing under low-nutrient conditions. These observations suggest that any CO2 effects on plant/herbivore inter- actions that are predicted from simple laboratory tests will be very uncertain. We clearly need more studies at the whole-system level in order to improve our under- standing of possible responses to elevated CO2. In par- ticular, the interactions of different plant functional types with soil microbiota and with animal consumers are still very poorly understood. Links to other attributes One strength of the 'network' approach taken by UCPE is that knowledge of plants' responses to one particular factor can easily be compared with similar information on a large number of other factors. For ex- ample, the CO2 screening experiments have been paralleled by similar work on sulphur dioxide, SO2 (with Dr T. W Ashenden at ITE Bangor's Penrhos Road site, see Ashenden et al. 1996) and on ozone, O3 (with Drs A. W. Davison and K. Reiling at the Univer- sity of Newcastle, see Reiling &amp; Davison 1992, 1993). We found the same relation between response to pol- lutant and type of plant in the case of both gases. Per- cent response was strongly and inversely related to seedling growth rate, a known predictor of 'stress- tolerance'. Slow-growing, perennial species, were much less susceptible under exposure to SO2 or O3 than were faster-growing species, whether perennial or annual. This contrasts markedly with the pattern found for elevated CO2 (Figure 1). We think that the simple, growth-rate-related response to SO2 and O3 arises directly from the physiology of the plant, rather than from a combination of physiol- ogy plus evolutionary history, as appears to be the case with the CO2 response. Because the ambient level of CO2 has undergone many changes during plant evolu- tionary time scales (Bradshaw &amp; McNeilly 1991), we suspect that this may have given plant life an oppor- tunity to evolve sophisticated responses which depend</page><page sequence="11">Abstracta Botanica 21 (1 997) 285 upon, but are not wholly driven by differences in growth rate. In contrast, the widespread introduction of high concentrations of SO2 and O3 into the atmos- pheric environment is relatively recent. The reaction to these gases could well be of a more automatic, physiological kind. In the case of the CO2 response it is notable that those types which could perhaps respond physiologically, but do not do so, are also those having the shortest life cycles and therefore the greatest opportunity for evolutionary adaptation. More lately, responsiveness to CO2 has played an im- portant part in the search for avenues of adaptive specialization which conform to basic 'functional types'. Grime and 34 others (1997) used multivariate methods to establish the primary axes of specialization within 43 herbaceous species in the ISP database. The analysis of 57 mature-phase attributes revealed a strong primary axis that separated stress-tolerant species from the rest by recognizing their low rates of litter decomposition, low precision in root and shoot foraging, low leaf nutrient concentration, high per- centage yield at low nutrient levels, high leaf lon- gevity, low relative growth rate, high leaf tensile strength, low palatability and high mycorrhizal status. Another axis, however, separated competitive species from the rest by virtue of their high lateral spread, low high root penetration under drought, long life history, high responsiveness to elevated CO2, inbreeding reproduction, and relatively low yield under drought. Hence, even at the level of single-species studies, the relevance of responsiveness to elevated CO2 needs to be seen in a much wider context than is often the case. Modelling What knowledge there is of plants' CCVresponsive- ness can be built into expert-system models which predict vegetation responses to climate and manage- ment changes. With Drs T. W. Parr and R. G. H. Bunce of the Institute of Terrestrial Ecology, UCPE has ex- tended the TRISTAR series of expert-system models (Hunt et al. 1991) to include our latest findings. Cel- lular automata models, both of the chequerboard type (Colasanti &amp; Grime 1993) and of the self-assembling type (Colasanti &amp; Hunt, 1997) have also proved to be very powerful tools. These models are general, deter- ministic and non-stationary and their purpose is to in- vestigate the extent to which the whole plant's morphology and function can be determined by resource acquisition and utilisation on the part of its component modules. The prototype of the iterative, self-assembling model type (Colasanti &amp; Hunt, 1997) has been shown to posess many of the most fundamental properties of the growth of individual plants, populations and com- munities. However, only two of the several possible environmental resources were included in the initial version of the model, namely light and mineral nutrients. More recently, we have created a model which is more specifically oriented towards climate- change studies through the inclusion of CO2 and water among the four driving variables. The results of early tests of the way this model deals with root-shoot al- location (Figure 11) are in complete conformity with our present understanding of the behaviour of plants under conditions of varying resource availability. These tests involved an extensive set of model simula- tions. A single model plant was 'grown' under fully- replicated, factorial sets of conditions. All four resource variables were flexed: the light resource in the series 2, 3 units (all units in the model are arbitrary at present); the CO2 resource in the series 2, 4 ... 8 units; the water resource in the series 4, 12, 20 units; the nutrient resource in the series 2, 4 ... 20 units. The root/shoot allometric coefficient was derived throughout for each of these 240 environmental com- binations. (With twenty replicate runs, it was calcu- lated that a real experiment of this scope would absorb approximately 140 man-years of research effort.) Data for the allometric coefficients were obtained from all iterations of the model up to and including number 80 (the allometric coefficient is the linear regression coef- ficient of In mean root module number on In mean shoot module number). The main effects of the four environmental variables on the allometric coefficient can easily be seen from Figure 1 1 : increasing light level increases the coeffi- cient (the plant becomes more 'rooty'); increasing CO2 level also increases the coefficient; increasing water level decreases the coefficient (the plant becomes more 'shooty'); and increasing nutrient level also decreases the coefficient. All of these main effects are in accordance with Davidson's functional equilibrium hypothesis (Davidson 1969): a deficiency in any one of these four resources leads to a partitioning of plant modules towards that half of the environment in which the deficiency manifests itself. The most obvious interactions between the four resources are those which operate within the same half of the environment. For example, as the CO2 level rises, the light effect becomes more distinct (the pairs of curves in the upper rows of Figure 1 1 are more widely separated from one another than are the cor- responding pairs in the lower rows); also, as the water resource increases, the nutrient effect becomes more pronounced (the uppermost curves in the upper row of Figure 1 1 drift downwards more strongly with increas-</page><page sequence="12">286 Hunt et al.: Effects of elevated carbon-dioxide Figure 11. Root/shoot allometric coefficients from extensive sets of cellular- automata simulations. A single model plant was 'grown' under replicated and factorial combinations of levels of four resource variables: light, CO2, water and nutrients. The main effects are: increasing the light level or the CO2 level increases the coefficient (the plant becomes more 'rooty'); in- creasing the water level or the nutrient level decreases the coefficient (the plant becomes more 'shooty'). ing nutrient level). Such synergisms are entirely in line with experimental evidence. Further work is in progress to deal with the question of increased water use efficiency under elevated CO2. Conclusions The past ten years have witnessed a steady increase in the sophistication and scale of the experimental ap- proaches devoted to estimating the present and future impacts of elevated atmospheric carbon dioxide on vegetation. When the potential for a sustained rise in atmospheric carbon dioxide was first recognised it was understandable that work would focus on the im- mediate effects on photosynthesis and growth and that there would be a major emphasis on crop plants. As attention widened from crops (where some knowledge of CCVresponsiveness was already avail- able) to native vegetation (where virtually nothing was known) it was inevitable that early models and ex- perimental approaches would be strongly influenced by agricultural methods and results. In consequence, it was tempting to analyse plant community responses to elevated CO2 as a process in which shifts in species composition would be predictable from the relative responsiveness of the component species measured in isolation. In this paper we have recounted, through the experience of UCPE, the steps through which this simplistic approach has been progressively rejected. Can we now recognise a basis for predictive modelling of vegetation response to elevated CO2 which is ap- propriate to natural vegetation? Perhaps the first and most important step in this direction is to devise rather different models for productive and unproductive ecosystems. Where natural vegetation occupies fertile soil and enjoys relatively weak climatic constraints, we are likely to confirm our emphasis on C3/C4 photosynthesis, carbon sink strength, leaf canopy and fine-root competition and the moderating effects of elevated CO2 on water use efficiency. However, rather different priorities are becoming apparent in cir- cumstances where vegetation is established on chroni- cally infertile soils. Here we predict that long-term effects of elevated CO2 will occur, but we suspect that these will arise less frequently as a direct consequence of beneficial effects of CO2 on plant growth. Where plant community biomass is severely constrained by absolute limitations in resources such as water,</page><page sequence="13">Abstracta Botanica 21 (1 997) 287 nitrogen or phosphorus, it seems likely that CO2 ef- fects may occur primarily through interactions with these other environmental factors and may take place without major increase in community productivity. Benefits and disbenefits, or 'shuffling of the pack', within plant communities are already predictable for unproductive habitats from current investigations. Shifts in species composition have indeed occurred when CO2 fumigations are conducted under field con- ditions. Recent results suggest that in unproductive conditions, the beneficial effects of elevated CO2 are most likely to be observed in species and plant func- tional types in which an increase in carbon fixation can provide differential relief from other limiting factors. Evidence reviewed in this paper reveals that such relief can occur either with the intervention of soil micro-or- ganisms (as in legumes and mycorrhizal plants) or without (as in Care: c species). Acknowledgements: We have received substantial assistance from Dr T. W. Ashenden, Mr A. P, Askew, Ms A. Camelli, Mr D. Corker, Prof. A. W. Davison, Prof. J. A. Farrar, Dr S. Gunn, Dr D. W. Hand, Mr M. A. Hannah, Dr J. A. Harris, Dr S. H. Hillier, Dr J. G. Hodgson, Mr E. McPherson, Mr A. M. Neal, Dr G. H. Priestman, Dr K. Reiling, Dr C. M. Stirling, and Dr K. Thompson. The work was supported by the Engineering and Physical Science Research Couuncil, the Health and Safety Laboratory, Horticulture Research International, and the Natural Environment Research Council. References Arnone, J. A., J.G. Zaller, C. Ziegler, H. Zandt &amp; C. Körner. 1995. Leaf quality and insect herbivory in model tropical plant com- munities after long-term exposure to elevated atmospheric CO2. Oecologia 104:72-78. Ashenden, T.W., R. Hunt, S.A. Bell, T.G. Williams, A Mann, R.E. Booth &amp; L. Poorter. 1996. Responses to SO2 pollution in 41 British herbaceous species. Functional Ecology 10: 483-490. Bazzaz, F.A. 1993. Use of plant growth analysis in global change studies: modules, individuals and populations. In: Schulze E-D., Mooney H.A., eds. Design and execution of experiments on CO2 enrichment. Brussels: Commission of the European Com- munities, 53-71. Bazzaz, F.A. &amp; S.L. Miao. 1993. Successional status, seed size, and response of tree seedlings to CO2, light, and nutrients. Ecology 74: 104-112. Bradshaw, A.D. &amp; T. McNeilly. 1991. Evolutionary response to global climatic change. Annals of Botany 67 (suppl. 1): 5-14. Ceulemans, R., &amp; M. Mousseau. 1994. Tansley Review No. 71 . Ef- fects of elevated atmospheric CO2 on woody plants. New Phytologist 127: 425-446. Colasanti, R.L. &amp; J.R Grime. 1993. Resource dynamics and vegeta- tion processes: a deterministic model using two dimensional cellular automata. Functional Ecology 7: 169-176. Colasanti, R.L. &amp; R. Hunt. 1997. Resource dynamics and vegetation processes: a self assembling model for individuals, populations and communities. Functional Ecology 11:133-145. Cornelissen, J.H.C., P. Castro-Diez &amp; R. Hunt. 1996. Seedling growth, allocation and leaf attributes in a wide range of woody plant species and types. Journal of Ecology 84: 755-765. Cure, J.D. &amp; B. Adcock. 1986. Crop responses to carbon dioxide doubling: a literature survey. Agriculture and Forest Meteorol- ogy 38: 127-145. Davidson, R.L. 1969. Effect of root/leaf temperature differentials on root/shoot ratios in some pasture grasses and clover. Annals of Botany 33: 561-69. Diaz, S., J. P. Grime, J. Harris &amp; E. McPherson. 1993. Evidence of a feedback mechanism limiting plant response to elevated car- bon dioxide. Nature 364:616-617. Diaz S. 1995. Elevated CO2 responsiveness, interactions at the com- munity level and plant functional types. Journal of Biogeog- raphy 22:289-295. Diaz S. 1996. Effects of elevated CO2 at the community level mediated by root symbionts. Plant and Soil 187:309-320. DOE 1996. Review of the potential effects of climate change in the United Kingdom. London: HMSO. Fajer, E.D., M.D. Bowers &amp; F.A. Bazzaz. 1989. The effects of en- riched carbon dioxide atmospheres on plant-insects herbivore interactions. Science 243, 1 198-1200. Farquhar, G.D. &amp; S. von Caemmerer. 1982. Modelling of photosyn- thetic response to environmental conditions. In: Lange O.L., Nobel P.S., Osmond C.B., Ziegler H., eds. Encyclopaedia of plant physiology, Vol. 12B. Heidelberg: Springer Verlag, 549- 587. Grime, J. P., K. Thompson, R. Hunt, J.G. Hodgson, J.H.C. Cornelis- sen, I.H. Rorison, G.A.F. Hendry, T.W. Ashenden, A.P. Askew, S R. Band, R.E. Booth, C.C. Bossard, B.D. Campbell, J.E.L. Cooper, A.W. Davison, P.L. Gupta, W. Hall, D.W. Hand, M.A. Hannah, S.H. Hillier, D.J. Hodkinson, A. Jalili, Z. Liu, J.M.L. Mackey, N. Matthews, M.A. Mowforth, A.M. Neal, R.J. Reader, K. Reiling, W. Ross-Fraser, R.E. Spencer, F. Sutton, D.E Tasker, P.C. Thorpe &amp; J. Whitehouse. 1997. Integrated screening validates primary axes of specialisation in plants. Oikos 79:259- 281. Grime, J. P. 1996. The changing vegetation of Europe: what is the role of elevated carbon dioxide? In: Körner C., Bazzaz F.A., eds. Carbon dioxide, populations and communities. New York: Academic Press, 85-92. Hendry, G.A.F. &amp; J. P. Grime, (eds) 1993. Methods in comparative plant ecology: a laboratory manual. London: Chapman &amp; Hall. Hillier, S.H. 1990. Gaps seed banks and plant species diversity in calcareous grasslands. In: Hillier S.H., Walton D.W.H., Wells D.H., eds. Calcareous grasslands - ecology and management. Proceedings of a joint British Ecological Society/Nature Con- servancy Council Symposium, 14-16 September 1987. Hun- tingdon: Bluntisham Books, 57-66. Hodgson, J.G. 1989. What is happening to the British flora? An in- vestigation of commonness and rarity. Plants Today 2: 26-32. Hodgson, J.G. 1986. Commonness and rarity in plants with special reference to the Sheffield flora. II. The relative importance of</page><page sequence="14">288 Hunt et al.: Effects of elevated carbon-dioxide climate, soils and landuse. Biological Conservation 36: 254- 274. Hunt, R., D.W. Hand, M.A. Hannah &amp; A.M. Neal. 1991. Response to CO2 enrichment in 27 herbaceous species. Functional Ecol- ogy 5: 410-421. Hunt, R., D.W Hand, M.A. Hannah &amp; A.M. Neal. 1993. Further responses to CO2 enrichment in British herbaceous species. Functional Ecology, 7: 661-668. Hunt, R., D.W Hand, M.A. Hannah &amp; A.M. Neal. 1995. Temporal and nutritional influences on the CO2 response in selected British grasses. Annals of Botany 75: 207-216. Hunt, R., D.A.J. Middleton, J. P. Grime &amp; J.G. Hodgson. 1991. TRISTAR: an expert system for vegetation processes. Expert Systems 8: 219-226. Koch, G.W. &amp; H.A. Mooney. (eds) 1996. Carbon dioxide and ter- restrial ecosystems. London: Academic Press. Körner, C. 1993. CO2 fertilisation: the great uncertainty in future vegetation development. In: Solomon A.M., Shugart H.H., eds. Vegetation dynamics and global change. New York: Chapman and Hall, 53-70. Lincoln, D.E., E.D. Fajer &amp; R.H. Johnson. 1993. Plant-insect her- bivore interactions in elevated CO2 environments. Trends in Ecology and Evolution 8, 64-68. Linder, S. &amp; A. J. S. McDonald. 1993. Plant nutrition and the inter- pretatiuon of growth response to elevated concentrations of at- mospheric carbon dioxide. In: Schulze E-D., Mooney H.A., eds. Design and execution of experiments on CO2 enrichment. Brus- sels: Commission of the European Communities, 73-82. Lindroth, R.L., G.E. Arteel &amp; K.K. Kinney. 1995. Responses of three saturniid species to paper birch grown under enriched CO2 atmospheres. Functional Ecology 9, 306-3 1 1 . McLeod, A.R. Í993. Open-air exposure systems for air pollutant studies: their potentials and limitations. In: Schulze E-D., Mooney H.A., eds. Design and execution of experiments on CO2 enrichment. Brussels: Commission of the European Com- munities, 353-366. Mortensen, L.M. 1994. The influence of carbon dioxide or ozone concentration on growth and assimilate partitioning in seedlings of nine conifers. Acta Agriculturae Scandinavica (Section B) 44: 157-163. Owensby, C.E., J.M. Ham, A. Knapp, C.W. Rice, P.I. Coyne &amp; L.M. Auen. 1996. Ecosystem-level responses of tallgrass prairie to elevated CO2. In: Koch GW, &amp; H.A. Mooney (eds.) Carbon dioxide and terrestrial ecosystems. London: Academic Press, 147-162. Owensby, C.E., L.M. Auen &amp; P.I. Coyne. 1994. Biomass production in a nitrogen-fertilized, tallgrass prairie ecosystem exposed to ambient and elevated levels of CO2. Plant and Soil 165: 105- 1 1 A 1 1H. Poorter, H., C. Roumet &amp; B.D. Campbell. 1996. Interspecific varia- tion in the growth response of plants to elevated CO2: a search for functional types. In: Körner C. &amp; F.A. Bazzaz (eds.) Carbon dioxide, populations and communities. New York: Academic Press, 375-412. Poorter, H. 1993. Interspecific variation in the growth response of plants to an elevated ambient CO2 concentration. Vegetatio 104/105: 77-97 Reiling, K. &amp; A.W. Davison. 1992. The response of native, her- baceous species to ozone; growth and fluorescence screening. New Phytologist, 120: 29-33. Reiling, K. &amp; A.W. Davison. 1993. Ozone sensitivity. In: Hendry GAF, Grime JP, Methods in comparative plant ecology. London: Chapman &amp; Hall, 63-65. Rouhier, H., G. Billès, A. El Kohen, M. Mousseau &amp; P. Bottner. 1994. Effect of elevated CO2 on carbon and nitrogen distribu- tion within a tree ( Castanea sativa Mill.) - soil system. Plant and Soil 162: 281-292. Spring, G.M., G.H. Priestman &amp; J. P. Grime. 1996. A new field tech- nique for elevating carbon dioxide levels in climate change ex- periments. Functional Ecology, in press. Stitt, M. 1993. Enhanced CO2, photosynthesis and growth; what should we measure to gain a better understanding of the plant's response. In: Schulze E-D., Mooney H.A., eds. Design and ex- ecution of experiments on CO2 enrichment. Brussels: Commis- sion of the European Communities, 3-28. Stuhlfauth, T., K. Klug &amp; H. P. Fock. 1987. The production of secondary metabolites by Digitalis lanata during CO2 enrich- ment and water stress. Phytochemistry 26: 2735-2739. Wong, S.C. 1990. Elevated CO2 and plant growth. II. Nonstructural carbohydrate content and its effect on growth parameters. Photosynthesis Research 23: 171-180. Zak, D.R., K.S. Pregitzer, P.S. Curtis, J.A. Teeri, R. Fogel &amp; D.L. Randlett. 1993. Elevated atmospheric CO2 and feedback bet- ween carbon and nitrogen cycles. Plant and Soil 151: 105-1 17.</page></plain_text>