<plain_text><page sequence="1">SIR BENJAMIN COLLINS BRODIE, Bart., Vice-President, in the Chair. The reading of a paper entitled, " On the Ice, formed under pecu? liar circumstances, at the bottom of running Water." By the Rev. James Farquharson, of Alford, F.R.S., was resumed and concluded. The ice, which is frequently observed to collect at the bottom of streams and rivers, differs in appearance from that which is formed at the surface; for, instead of assuming the shape of solid glass like plates,it has more theappearanceofaggregated masses ofsnow, andis composed of small crystals of ice adheringtogetherirregularly, either by their sides or angles. Rivers are sometimes sochoked up by accumu? lations of ground-iceof this description, that they are not only impeded in their course, but also raised considerably above their banks. While in this state, a slight change in the weather will frequently occasion the complete disengagement of this ice from the bottom ; so that, in a very short space of time, the river returns into its natural channel;</page><page sequence="2">331 and then, although it may be frozen at the surface, it continues to flow over a perfectly clear bottom. All these phenomena are considered by the author as perfectly explicable on the theory he advances, of different degrees of radiation of heat occurring from the bottom ac? cording to variations of circumstances. He conceives that when this radiation takes place from the solid opake materials of the bed of the stream, through the stratum of transparent water, congelation is in? duced on that portion of fluid, already cooled down to the freezing- point, which is in immediate contact with the radiating body. The circumstances which, by favouring radiation, contribute to this effect, are, principally, great clearness of the sky, and great transparency of the water 3 the bottom of the river being cooled below the freezing- point sooner than the water which is flowing over it 3 and the ice, formed at the bottom, remaining attached to it, as long as the heat which is transmitted from below continues to be lost by radiation. The formation of ground-ice is favoured by the intestine motions in? cident to a rapid current; because the different strata of fluid, which in still water would have arranged themselves, according to their specific gravities, in the order most conducive to the congelation of the sur? face, being continually mixed together, the whole body of water is cooled more uniformly. The Society then adjourned over the Easter recess to meet again on the 30th instant.</page></plain_text>