<plain_text><page sequence="1">REVIEWED Paramyxovirus Infection in a Moluccan Cockatoo (Caca oluccensis) with Neurologic Signs Michael W. Leach, DVM Robert J. Higgins, BVSc, MS, PhD Linda J. Lowenstine, DVM, PhD Barbara Shor, DVM Summary A paramyxovirus was identified ultrastructurally in the brain ofa Moluccan Cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) which had clinical signs of incoordination and proprioceptive deficits progressing rapidly to recumbency accompanied by twitching. Remarkable microscopic changes localized in the rostral cerebrum consisted of large numbers of intracytoplasmic and occa- sional intranuclear inclusion bodies, neuronal necrosis, syncytial cell formation, anda relative lack of inflammation associated with the infection. Based on the current classification system and knowledge about avian paramyxoviruses, a group 3 paramyx- ovirus was suspected to be the causative agent of the neurologic signs and microscopic lesions. Avian paramyxoviruses have been associated with neurologic signs and central nervous system lesions in poultry and caged birds.1-12 In psittacines, most paramyxoviruses reported to cause neurologic signs were members of paramyx- ovirus group 1 (PMV-1), the causative agent of Newcastle disease.6,8,10 The etiologic agent isolated from one outbreak6 was initially identified only as a paramyxovirus, but subse- quently was placed in paramyxovirus group 3 (PMV-3).2,5 The present report describes the clinical signs and pathologic lesions associated with a viral agent, ultrastructurally iden- tified as a paramyxovirus, in the central nervous system of a Moluccan Cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis). Differences be- tween this and previous cases are discussed. CASE REPORT A 1 a2 year old, 700 g male Moluccan Cockatoo was presented to the University of California Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital (VMTH) with a one-day history of depres- sion and perching difficulty. The owner had obtained the bird two months previously from a local pet store, and it was not known if it was captive bred or imported. The cockatoo was housed alone, but several other birds (Yellow-naped Amazon parrots Amazona ochrocephala auropalliata, Nanday Conures Nandayus nenday, cockatiels Nymphicus hollandicus, budgerigars Melopsittacus undulatus, Zebra Finches Poephila castanotis, and Grey-cheeked Parakeets Brotogeris pyr- rhopterus) were kept in the same room. The owner reported Departments of Veterinary Pathology and Zoological Medicine, Veterinary Medical Teaching Hospital, University of California, Davis, California VOL.2 NO.2 1988 87</page><page sequence="2">Paramyxovirus that six Grey-cheeked Parakeets had been purchased from a pet store several weeks previously, and four had died sud- denly one or two weeks before the cockatoo had become ill. No birds had been necropsied. The cockatoo was thin, lethargic, and depressed on physical examination. Incoordination and proprioceptive deficits of the legs were noted. Gripping strength of the feet was nor- mal to slightly decreased. The bird often sat on his hocks with his feet clenched. He exhibited open-mouth breathing. Small proliferative lesions present on the right toes were clinically diagnosed as herpesvirus infection. The bird would not eat voluntarily. Symptomatic and supportive treatment including tube feedinga, fluid therapyb, chloramphenicolc, and dex- amethasoned was initiated. Vitaminef and minerals sup- plements were also administered. The following day, the bird could perch normally but still would not eat. Samples were submitted for a complete blood count (CBC), biochemical panel, choanal and cloacal microbiological culture, and fecal parasite analysis. Results of the CBC indicated anemia (packed cell volume = 28) with the presence of large numbers of intracellular parasites within erythrocytes, subsequently identified as small numbers of Hemoproteus sp. and large numbers of Plasmodium sp. The next morning the bird was found on his back on the bottom of the cage, still gripping his perch which was placed close to the cage floor. He was able to perch with assistance. Radiographs revealed food in the crop six hours post-feeding and gas in the ventriculus and intestines. Abnormal laboratory findings included elevated serum phosphorus (5.0 mg/dl), uric acid (13.4 mg/dl), aspartate aminotransferase (698 U/1), lactate dehydrogenase (1913 U/1), and sodium (161.0 mmol/1). The choanal culture revealed small numbers of Enterobacter cloacae and large numbers of a gram-negative rod which was not further identified. Dexamethasone treat- ment was discontinued. The following morning the bird perched and ate well, but by afternoon was lying on his side, occasionally twitching. Chloroquineh therapy was initiated to treat the hematozoa. Chloramphenicol was replaced with trimethoprim- sulfadiazine.i However, due to the poor prognosis, the owner elected euthanasia. Necropsy revealed several tan, slightly proliferative foci on the plantar surfaces of the right toes. No other significant lesions were seen grossly. Microscopic lesions in the central nervous system were confined to the rostral cerebrum and con- sisted of scattered neuronal necrosis and central chromatolysis. Fig. 1. Photomicrograph of the rostral cerebrum. Several in- tracytoplasmic inclusion bodies (arrow) within a neuron cell body. (H&amp;E, LOOX) Numerous intracytoplasmic and, less commonly, intranuclear inclusion bodies were seen in neurons, glial cells, and occa- sional multinucleate syncytial cells (Figure 1). The inclusion bodies were single to multiple, round to oval, one to five microns in diameter, and eosinophilic to amphophilic. The lesions on the right toes were diagnosed as proliferative epider- mitis. Intranuclear basophilic inclusion bodies similar to those of cutaneous herpesvirus infections 1,2,13 were seen in the parakeratotic stratum corneum. Additional histopathologic findings included chronic, mild to moderate pancreatitis and numerous, small, random accumulations of brown to black pigmented macrophages in the liver and spleen. Ultrastructural examination of brain demonstrated that the intracytoplasmic and intranuclear inclusion bodies were tang- led, coiled tubular nucleocapsids with an average diameter of 17 to 19 nm and of indeterminate length. Viral particles were seen in morphologically intact and necrotic cells (Figure 2). Mature virions were not seen. DISCUSSION This case was remarkable because of the large number of localized inclusion bodies present in the brain, the syncytial cell formation, and the relative lack of inflammation. a. Gevrala protein therapeutic nutritional supplement, Lederle Laboratories Division, American Cyanamid Corporation, Pearl River, NY, 10965 and Soylaca Loma Linda Foods, Inc., Riverside, CA 92515 (20 ml of a 1:1 mixture po q12h). b. Lactated Ringer's injection USP, Travenol Laboratories, Inc., Deerfield, IL, 60015 (8 ml sq q12h). c. Chloromycetina sodium succinate, Parke-Davis, Division of Warner Lambert Co., Morris Plains, NJ, 07950 (100 mg/kg im q12h). d. Dexamethasone injection, Burns Veterinary Supplx, Oakland, CA, 94621 (0.5 mg/kg im sid day one, 0.14 mg/kg im sid day two). e. B-Sola Fort Dodge Laboratories, Inc., Fort Dodge, IA, 50501 (0.7 ml im) f. Injacom 100a Roche Chemical Division, Hoffman-LaRoche Inc., Nutley, NJ, 07110 (0.07 ml im). g. Neo-Calglucona (glubionate calcium) syrup, Sandoz Pharmaceuticals Corporation, East Hanover, NJ, 07936 (0.05 ml po). h. Aralena phosphate, Winthrop-Breon Laboratories, 90 Park Ave., New York, NY, 10016 (10 mg/kg po loading dose). i. Tribrissena 24% injection, Wellcome Animal Health Division, Burroughs Wellcome Co., Kansas City, MO, 64108 (0.2 ml im q12h). 88 AAV TODAY</page><page sequence="3">Fig. 2. Electron photomicrograph of the rostral brain. Intracytoplasmic (black arrow) and intranuclear (white arrow) inclusions within a necrotic cell. (Lead citrate and uranyl acetate, 8,000X) Inset: A viral inclusion from an intact cell demonstrating tangled, coiled tubular nucleocapsids characteristic of paramyxoviruses. (Lead citrate and uranyl acetate, 160,000X) Ultrastructural examination of inclusions revealed viral par- ticles which were morphologically consistent with the features described for paramyxovirusesl4 and similar to the diameter of avian paramyxovirus nucleocapsids.4,15 The infection was ultimately cytolytic since viral particles were consistently seen in necrotic cells. It is not clear in which group the paramyx- ovirus of the report should be placed, but based on the cur- rent classification system of avian paramyxoviruses, group 3 is likely. Virus isolation would have been necessary for definitive identification. Avian paramyxovirus isolates have been placed into 9 groups.3,7 Groups 1, 2, 3, and 5 have been isolated from psittacines,1-3,~7 and of these groups, 1 and 3 have been associated with central nervous system signs and pathologic lesions.~,2,4,5,11 Group 1 is the causative agent of Newcastle disease.3,7 The microscopic lesions seen in the cockatoo of this report were not similar to those of Newcastle disease. Microscopic changes in the brain associated with Newcastle disease in poultry and psittacines include glial foci, neuronal degenera- tion, cytolysis, neuronophagia, perivascular lymphocytic in- filtration, and endothelial cell hypertrophy.4,11a16 The lesions are usually distributed throughout the entire brain. Further- more, Newcastle disease has only rarely been reported to cause inclusion body formation. Intranuclear inclusion bodies have been described in the spleen of chickens,17 and intranuclear and possibly intracytoplasmic inclusion bodies have been reported in the brain of chickens.18 Their existence in Newcastle disease, however, is controversial.19 Also, lymphocytic-plasmacytic pancreatitis has not been reported in Newcastle disease, but is associated with PMV-3 infec- tion.12 Based on the above differences, it was unlikely this cockatoo was infected with Newcastle disease virus. Reports of PMV-3 in psittacines have described some dif- ferent clinical and microscopic findings from those seen in this cockatoo. A group of Neophema spp. spontaneously in- fected with a paramyxovirus, later identified as PMV-3, developed torticollis, circling, and an inability to fly.5,6 Birds often survived if they could continue eating and drinking. Microscopic lesions consisted of diffuse glial cell proliferation in the cerebrum, cerebellum, and medulla oblongata. Neuronophagia and a few perivascular round cell infiltrates were also present in the cerebellum. Inclusion bodies were not found in infected birds or in cells infected with the virus VOL.2 NO.2 1988 89</page><page sequence="4">Paramyxovirus I in vitro. However, syncytial cell formation was seen in vitro. Syncytial cells were seen in the brain of this cockatoo. A non-hemagglutinating paramyxovirus was isolated from a group of Pionus spp. with tremors, circling, ataxia, falling or staggering, torticollis, weakness or paresis, and depres- sion.2,8 All birds could perch. These birds had microscopic lesions characterized by severe lymphocytic-plasmacytic men- ingomyeloencephalitis and choroiditis. Neuronal necrosis was rarely seen in these birds, while occasional intranuclear in- clusions were confined to ependyma and subependymal glial cells. Ultrastructurally, these inclusions contained viral par- ticles morphologically similar to a paramyxovirus (Lowenstine, unpublished data). Most birds also had a lymphocytic- plasmacytic fibrosing pancreatitis, similar to that seen in this cockatoo. PMV-3 was isolated from the brain and heart of nestling cockatiels (Nymphicus hollandicus) with opisthotonos, tremors, leg paralysis, and dyspnea associated with high mor- bidity and mortality.10 Gross lesions consisted of car- diomegaly and pericardial effusion. On microscopic examina- tion the myocardium was diffusely infiltrated with lym- phocytes, plasma cells, and occasional heterophils. In- tranuclear inclusions were seen in myocardial cells and mononuclear cells. No microscopic lesions were seen in the nervous system. Adult cockatiels were not clinically affected. In most cases of PMV-3 infection, groups of birds were af- fected. In the present report four Grey-cheeked Parakeets died suddenly, shortly before the cockatoo developed clinical signs. Two remaining Grey-cheeked Parakeets died soon after the cockatoo was euthanized, but post mortem examination or virus isolation was not performed on any of the parakeets. Several other clinically normal birds representing five different species (listed above) were housed in the same room with the cockatoo and Grey-cheeked Parakeets. The exposed birds re- mained normal for two months after the removal of the cockatoo until they were all killed in a fire. In at least two reports 6,8 other species of birds were in contact with infected birds, but often did not show clinical signs of disease. The adult cockatiels in another report did not develop clinical signs although nestling cockatiels were affected.10 It is likely that viral susceptibility depends at least in part on host species, age differences, and immune status. Because perivascular inflammation, neuronophagia, and glial foci are often seen in cases of avian viral encephalitis,19,20 their absence in this brain was remarkable. A similar observation has been noted in a case of papovaviral encephalitis in a Moluccan Cockatoo.21 The authors of this report speculated that the relative lack of inflammation could be characteristic of viral encephalitis in psittacines or due to some type of immune deficiency. The relationship between the viral and protozoal diseases present in this cockatoo is not known. Multiple infections were present in the Pionus spp. described above. These infections could have been secondary to the paramyxovirus infection, 90 AAV TODAY or they could have predisposed the birds to paramyxovirus infection. Alternatively, all infections may have been due to some type of primary immune deficiency. Clinicians should be aware of the potential for paramyx- oviruses other than PMV-1 (Newcastle disease) to cause neurologic signs in individuals or groups of psittacines; virus isolation will be necessary to establish an accurate diagnosis. Further work will be required to better understand the virus- host interactions between paramyxoviruses and psittacines. REFERENCES 1. GERLACH H: Viral diseases. In Harrison GJ, Harrison LR (eds): Clinical Avian Medicine and Surgery. Philadelphia, WB Saunders Co, 1986, pp 408-433. 2. LOWENSTINE LJ: Emerging viral diseases of psittacine birds. In Kirk RW (ed): Current Veterinary Therapy IX. Philadelphia, WB Saunders Co, 1986, pp 705-710. 3. ALEXANDER DJ: The classification, host range and distribution of avian paramyxoviruses. In McFerranJB, McNulty MS (ed): Acute virus infections of poultry. Current Topics in Veterinary Medicine and Animal Science, Vol 37. Dordrecht, Martinus Nijhoff Publishers, 1986, pp 52-67. 4. BEARD CW, HANSON RP: Newcastle disease. In Hofstad, MS (ed): Diseases of Poultry. Ames, Iowa State University Press, 1984, pp 452-470. 5. GERLACH H: Virus diseases in pet birds. Proceedings of 1983 An- nual Meeting of the Association of Avian Veterinarians, pp 87-109. 6. SMIT T, RONDHUIS PR: Studies on a virus isolated from the brain of a parakeet Neophema sp. Avian Pathology 5:21-30, 1976. 7. ALEXANDER DL: Avian Paramyxoviruses. Proceedings of the 34th Western Poultry Disease Conference, 1985, pp 121-126. 8. LOWENSTINE LJ, JOYNER K, FOWLER M: Lymphoplasmacytic encephalitis, myelitis, and meningitis in a group of Pionus spp. par- rots. Proceedings of the 34th Western Poultry Disease Conference, 1985, pp 91-93. 9. ERICKSON, GA, et al: Interactions between viscerotropic velogenic Newcastle disease virus and pet birds of six species. I. Clinical and serologic responses, and viral excretion. Avian Diseases 21:642-654, 1977. 10. VANDERHEYDEN N, REED WM: Paramyxovirus group 3 infection in cockatiels. AAV Today 1:53-54, 1987. 11. PROCTOR SJ, et al: Neurologic lesions of velogenic viscerotropic Newcastle disease in parrots, budgerigars, and canaries. Proceedings of 17th Annual Meeting of American Association of Veterinary Laboratory Diagnosticians, 1974, pp 115-122. 12. VAN DER HAGE, et al: Paramyxovirus infections in Psittaciformes and Passeriformes. European Symposium on Bird Diseases, 1987, pp 85-89. 13. LOWENSTINE LJ, et al: Viral papillomas on the feet of cockatoos. Proceedings of 25th International Symposium on Diseases of Zoo Animals, Vienna, 1983, pp 85-87. 14. COMPANS RW, CHOPPIN PW: Orthomyxoviruses and paramyx- oviruses. In Dalton AJ (ed): Ultrastructure of Animal Viruses and Bacteriophages. Academic Press, Inc., 1973, pp 213-237. 15. HIRAU K, et al: Characterization ofparamyxo-, herpes-, and orbiviruses from psittacine birds. Avian Diseases 23:148-163, 1979. 16. HENG, NH, LIM KT: Outbreak of Newcastle disease in captive moustache parakeets (Psittacula alexandn). Kajian Veterinar 15:11-16, 1983. 17. DEKOCK G: Studies on the histopathology and pathogenesis of fowls in South Africa, with special reference to the lymphoid system. Onderstepoort Journal of Veterinary Research 26:599-620, 1954. 18. FINDLEY GM, et al: The histopathology of fowl pest. The Journal of Pathology and Bacteriology 45:589-596, 1937. 19. PATTISON M: Histopathology of some viral infections of the central nervous system of the domestic fowl. Veterinary Bulletin 43:305-310, 1973. 20. HELMBOLDT CF: Histopathologic differentiation of diseases of the nervous system of the domestic fowl (Gallus). Avian Diseases 16:229-240, 1972. 21. SCHMIDT RE, et al: Morphologic identification of papovavirus in a Moluccan cockatoo (Cacatua moluccensis) with neurologic signs. AAV Today 1:107-108, 1987.</page></plain_text>