<plain_text><page sequence="1">753 ment of which the conical papilli are devoid. This movement ap- pears to be for the purpose of promoting absorption and of removing any foreign particles from their surface. He regards the conical papillae as strictly destined for tactile purposes, on account of the thickness of their epithelium, and the presence of the nervous ramifications at their base, which are simni- lar to those existing at the under surface of the tongue, where the sensation of taste does not exist and the tactile powers alone are present, The author has extended his observations to other animals, to the mammiferse, and to Man in particular, and states that in all these the same difference exists between the two species of papille. He promises in his next paper on this subject to describe the structure of the mammiferae. This paper is illustrated by several drawings. May 4, 1848. The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, President, in the Chair. " The Brain the sole centre of the Human Nervous System." By Edwin Lee, Esq. Communicated by Samuel Solly, Esq., F.R.S. It has been inferred by many physiologists, from experiments made on the lower animals, that portions of the human nervous system are isolated and independent of each other; but from the circumstance that in these animals the brain is only a small ap- pendage to the rest of the nervous system, while in the human spe- cies it is the principal portion, the author takes an opposite view of the subject. In man, the grey matter, which is the source of the power of the brain, is largely agglomerated in that organ, but is only diffused in comparatively minute proportions throughout the other parts of the nervous apparatus, which, when detached from the central organ, speedily lose the power of exciting muscular con- traction, because this power is derived exclusively from the brain, and only such a portion is retained in the grey matter of the spinal cord and the ganglia of the sympathetic as is requisite for the im- mediate actions of the parts which they supply with nerves. Thie opinions of Galen, of Willis, and of the more recent phy- siologists, Louget, Muller, Duges, Carus, Pinel, Foville, Flourens, Cruveillier, are cited at some length in corroboration of the views of the author, and in opposition to those of Bichat, and others of the older physiologists, together with those of Sir C. Bell, Mr. Grainger, Dr. M. Hall, Kolliker, Stilling, and others, and tending also to disprove.the excito-imotory theory of Dr. M. Hall, as regards its applicability to medical practice. Quotations to the same effect are given from Valentin, Volkmann, Fauvel, Mery, Cabanis, and Legallois; and reference is likewise made to pathological illustra-</page><page sequence="2">754 tions, and to the instances of anencephalous infants, as leading to the following deductions:- 1. In man and the higher mammalia, the brain is the sole centre of the nervous system and the source of its power. 2. The grey matter of the spinal chord and the ganglia of the sympathetic are to be considered as reservoirs of this power, for the immediate action of the parts supplied, which speedily become ex- hausted if communication with the brain be cut off; and also as modifiers of impressions transmitted from the organs of the brain. 3. The automatic and instinctive actions are not performed in- dependently of the concurrence of the brain, though its influence on these actions is less direct and manifest than in the case of volun- tary movements. 4. In several disorders which have been too exclusively referred to the spinal chord, the brain is the organ principally implicated. "On the Protection of Iron from Oxidation and from becoming foul when it is exposed to the action of sea and other waters." By Mr. William John Hay. Communicated by Admiral Beaufort, F.R.S. For attaining the objects mentioned in the title of this paper, the author was led by a process of experimental research, founded on chemical principle, to the discovery of the superior efficacy of a varnish consisting of one part of pitch and two parts of naphtha, together with ten pounds of the sub- and per-oxides of copper to each quart of the varnish. This varnish is made to adhere by ap- plying it to the iron previously rendered hot by placing underneath it braziers of ignited charcoal. He found that this coating of var- nish not only protected the iron from oxidation, but formed a perfect barrier to electro-chemical action between the copper oxide and the iron. Two or three of these coats are applied in succession, each being laid on after the preceding one has become hardened. The trials made of this method on various ships, the results of which aro detailed in an appendix to the paper, have proved perfectly satis- factory. May 11, 1848. The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, President, in the Chair. " On the Chemical Nature of a Wax from China." By Benjamin Collins Brodie, Esq. Communicated by Sir Benjamin Collins Brodie, Bart., F.R.S. The wax which is the subject of this investigation, is a substance imported into this country from China. It has the general appear- ance of spermaceti, but is harder than that body. The author gives reasons for believing that this wax, like bees'-wax, is a secretion from an insect.</page></plain_text>