<plain_text><page sequence="1">-29 IN MY EXPERI ENCE. . . DISCLAIMER The "IN MY EXPERIENCE" section serves as a forum for veterinary practitioners to relate experiences they have had in the field of avian medicine. The A.A.V. Newsletter does not claim to be a scientific or referred publication intended to make recommendations on the diag nosis or treatment of avian diseases or surgery. Anyone using any of the material from this publication does so at his own risk. IME 195 . . In regards to IME 174, we regularly use oral doxycycline (Vibramycin Calcium syrup - Pfizer) for chemotherapy of chlamydiosis. In mammals, absorption is "complete", and the drug is excreted in the bile as an inactive metabolite, having less impact on intestinal microflora. It has a long half-life in mammals, with minimal renal and hepatic effects. Dr. Gerlach's experience with injectable doxycycline stimula ted my interest in this route of therapy. The obvious benefits seemed to be improved efficacy and client compliance. I used a donated, healthy mealy amazon for a drug safety trial. "Health" was established with pre-treatment bloodwork. Pharyngeal and cloacal cultures revealed only gram-positive rods and cocci. Embryo innoculation of a 5-day fecal collection was negative for chlamydia. Doxycycline hyclate (Vibramycin for intravenous use - Pfizer) was administered at the 100 mg/kg dosage, intramuscularly. Twenty four hours post-injection, the bird became depressed, anorectic, and markedly dehydrated. Anorexia lasted for a total of 3 days. Elevations in LDH, SGOT, CPK, and creatinine were noted, presumably due to muscle necrosis (see blood results). The Vibramycin used by Dr. Gerlach may have been a different form, marketed in Germany. In addition to the marked drug reaction, this drug is very expensive ($13-16/ 100 mg vial). DAY 1 (Pre-treatment) DAY 2 DAY 4 DAY 10 WBC 10.0 PCV 55 PCV 68 PCV 47 PCV 50 Het 52 Bands 0 depression i-i^m-;^ ^ . lipemia Lymph 46 anorexia Mono 2 dehydration eating (Clinically Baso 0 normal) Eos 0 Creat 0.6 QNS 0.7 1.0 LDH 38 948 404 75 SGOT 102 QNS 3260 726 CPK 108 marked elev. 6356 219 ? Alan M. Fudge, D.V.M. (Ed. Note: A few weeks after the March Newsletter was printed, Dr. Gerlach called to report she had just found out the VIBRAMYCIN AVAILABLE IN GERMANY IS NOT THE SAME PRODUCT AS THE VIBRAMYCIN IN THE U.S. According to a Pfizer spokesman, the active ingredient, doxycycline, is the same, but the vehicle used to make it an intramuscular injectable in Germany is not approved by the FDA for human use in this country. As a result, the vehicle for the drug in the U.S. is ascorbic acid, which can be used intravenously, but is highly irritating to tissues</page><page sequence="2">-30 when injected IM. As there was no practical way to reach the membership before now, we were hoping the availability of the drug only in IV form and the cost might be deterrents. We are sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused. We appreciate Dr. Fudge's comments. It certainly emphasizes the need for a "trial run".) IME 196 . . In regard to IME 172, I would have to disagree with the toe nail clip being the least stressful way to get a blood sample. The shortest restraint time for me involves quickly getting into and out of the medial metatarsal vein (which pops right up in a bird with good hydration). I feel the blood from the toenail presents an abnormal picture, as this small vessel is in a dead-end area with sludging and pooling effects, which is not the same as the blood picture from a larger vessel that is actively involved in the circulatory dynamics. ? Wilbur Amand, V.M.D. IME 197 . . Regarding IME 176, in addition to streptomycin, other aminoglycocides (gentamycin, kanamycin) can act as neuromuscular blocking agents; they are capable of inducing vasomotor collapse and respiratory arrest, especially if inad vertantly injected IV. ? George V. Kollias, Jr., D.V.M. IME 198 . . In birds with upper respiratory signs, chlamydial cytology of nasal exudates can provide a rapid, definitive diag nosis of chlamydiosis, in a limited number of cases. Most exudates which have been positive were muco-purulent. I use Machiovello1s stain (Ralph Cooper - Current Veterinary Therapy VII). Positives have correlated well with fecal embryo innoculation and hematology (depression anemia, leukocytosis, left shift). ? Alan M. Fudge, D.V.M. IME 199 . . We experienced our first adverse reaction to dimetridazole (Emtryl - Salsbury Labs), in treatment of giardiasis in budgerigars. The affected birds were on the fifth day of chemotherapy (One tsp./gallon), when acute seizures were noticed in two birds. Over the next 24 hours, 5 more birds experienced seizures, in spite of changing to fresh water. Three died. The affected birds were breeders, drinking 4-5 times normal amount of water. The ambient temperature was mild. Other non breeding budgerigars and cockatiels were not affected. The liter ature mentions adverse neurological problems occasionally in humans taking metronidazole (Flagyl - Searle) . We were surprised, as clients in the past have inadvertently overdosed or treated much longer than prescribed, with no apparent ill effects. The moral of the story: water drugs treat the drinking water, the birds dose themselves. ? Alan M. Fudge, D.V.M. (Ed. note: The Journal of the AVMA, Vol. 180, No. 2 - Jan. 15, 1982 - published an article on The Nature and Treatment of Giardiasis in Parakeets by Drs. Scholtens, New and Ms. Johnson. They recom mended "3 oral doses given at the rate of 1.5 mg/30 g of body weight every 12 hours by stomach tube" (of dimetridazole).)</page><page sequence="3">-31 IME 200 . . Regarding IME 172, I was recently referred a Green-wing macaw by another veterinarian who had obviously done multiple blood panels on the bird (via toenail clips). The bird had nothing but short stubs left on all nails and was noticeably in pain, as he shifted his weight back and forth and was reluctant to use his feet. ? Greg J. Harrison, D.V.M. IME 201 . . Regarding IME 215, I feel that bumblefoot is also a very common cause of bilateral lameness in budgies, due primarily to lack of Vitamin A in the diet, but aggravated by sand paper perches and all perches being the same size. ? Greg J. Harrison, D.V.M. IME 202 . . Addend to IME 144, the product Can-Addase, nutritional supplement for dogs, has been used successfully by myself, Dr. Dean Ewing, and Dr. Dean Axelson, as a nutri tional supplement for birds. It is used 1/4 gram per pound twice a day for: hand feeding, tube feeding, during antibiotic therapy, stress rehabilitation, and impacted crop. Nutrient absorption is increased and the pH and flora of the intestine are stabilized. Can-Addase contains non-mammalian enzymes (amylase, lipase, and protease), together with lactobacillus and nutritional yeast. The product is non-allergenic and no ill effects have been reported with any dosage. Can-Addase is repackaged for clients1 use as Av-Addase. Both products are sold only to veterinarians by Medical Innovations, Inc., Phoenix, AZ 85031. ? Gordon M. Greenblatt, M.D. IME 203 . . We have recently hatched and raised an albino cockatiel, believed to be the first psittacine produced by artificial insemination (A/I). According to Dr. George Gee, reproductive physiologist at the Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, a fertile egg had been produced from an Electus by A/I at their facility, but did not hatch. The semen collection technique was one Dr. Gee has used on cranes at Patuxent. Although we have tried collecting samples from tame or imprinted macaws (Blue &amp; Gold, Green-wing, Scarlet), a Queen of Bavaria conure, and a Cayman Island amazon, we have only succeeded in budgies, cockatiels, and a pearly conure, after a training period. After the cockatiel semen was collected, it was micro scopically evaluated and immediately deposited via a PCV tube about V1 into the cloaca (aimed toward the vaginal opening) of a cinnamon hen who had been housed with another hen for 3 months and laying infertile egqs. After another insemination, she laid three fertile eggs, which were hatched in the incubator at 98.75?F, 86?F wet bulb. Since this was a full strength, immediate direct deposit of semen, the next step is to work out diluents and storage conditions. ? Greg J. Harrison, D.V.M.</page><page sequence="4">-32 IME 204 . . We advise our pet owning clients that bands are a significant cause of injury and shoyld be removed. Lately we have seen several young Blue and Gold macaws that have suffered from pressure necrosis and loss of a leg by pulling on and cinching up the new "safe" plastic bands. If we remove a band, we record the number and type and advise the client to save the band in case the bird is sold or transported. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., &lt;D.V.M. IME 205 . Idiopathic hypocalcemia seems to be a "syndrome" in African Grey Parrots. These birds present with nondescript symptoms such as shaking or "weakness". Hematological workups show calcium levels below 6.0 (normal= 8.0 - 18.0). Initial calcium injections and neocalglucon syrup (Dorsey) 5 cc/ 4 oz. drinking water eventually results in a return to normal. These birds are also treated with antibiotics. A possible etiology would be parathyroiditis. Has anyone else seen this or anything like it? I have also seen a similar problem in a hypocalcemic Half-moon parrot that was presented for treatment of convulsions. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., D.V.M. IME 206 . . In experiments with incubator-hatched cockatiels, a purified diet containing 5.0 percent dry food and 95 percent water produced poorer growth and earlier mortality than the dry diet diluted to 6.7 percent solids. Mortality of chicks fed the 6.7 percent solids diet began at about two weeks of age and continued until all chicks had died before any could be weaned. In a more recent feeding trial with a purified diet diluted to 11.1 percent solids, chicks were raised to weaning. However, high mortality began at two weeks of age, and only three chicks survived out of seventeen started. Growth up to two weeks was more rapid than in chicks fed the 6.7 percent solids diet. It appears that cockatiel chicks cannot tolerate a diet with a solids content as low as 11.1 percent and that the critical survival time begins at two weeks of age. ? I- I' R?udybush ( Davis) C. R. Grau IME 207 . . A more efficient and informative use of diagnostic laboratories will result if we think of a few points. The use of histopathology will give better results if we thoughtfully select the tissues to be sent to include diseased tissue and, if possible, a small amount of adjacent normal appearing tissue. The tissue should be sliced with a sharp blade one-fourth inch (5 mm) thick with a cross sectional area the size of a dime (1-1^ cm in diameter or smaller). Tubular organs should be injected with formalin or slit to provide speedy fixation. Place tissues in at least ten times the volume of 10% formalin for 24 hours. Gently pick out the tissue with forceps and place in a plastic whirl top bag with enough formalin or 70% alcohol to make sure the tissue is well wetted. Ship with enough packing to absorb the fluid in a crush resistant box. Include a history with the available information on symptoms, treatment response, lesions and information on any possible diseases you wish especially considered. ? E. L. McCune, D.V.M.</page><page sequence="5">-33 IME 208 . . VETERINARY ACUPUNCTURE A client that raises and fights chickens brought in a young cock bird that had been fought and was the winner of a tournament. The bird came through the ordeal with a scar in the loin on the right side from a steel spur. He was well in every way except that he could not tread a hen. rfusciE o^ca.CKSK^cuPuHcruRg The OWner t0ld me that the bird Was amj c+MTMizAnoN points worth $25,000 to him as a sire, and he wanted acupuncture done on him. He stated that since the fights 3 months before., when the bird walked toward j^^v/' _ the hens to tread them, he deviated ^^CvP^EvI / ? off to the right, and could not line dm 4Xf^\ I I placed one needle between the ^^mm ^!^S^v radius and ulna, and another in the RJ^JF^^-^S ? proximal end of the humerus. Then a ' s^^y^^^Sy^ / # needle was placed at the proximal end n/ / of the femur and another at the distal ?^^Sr\r^^S / end. Then another one was placed be '^-^- ^^^^??* tween the head of the tibia and fibula i?**'x*J^^ and another on the midline of the spine *&gt;^/^a \f:^^^ 'tis. . above the vent. ** \ VC-IJ^ Each pair of needles was connected \?\f^u to t^Le Positi^ anc* negative leads from ^^^^^&gt;^i4 an electrical acupuncture stimulator. *l?~??^ffiF 1st-4* The instrument was set a 3 Hz/sec. for M 15 minutes with the voltage turned up _J\ ~tfjd&amp;fo to the maximum tolerance, enough to get a slight tremor in the muscles. After each session three days apart the owner declared that the bird was doing better. After the fifth session, I dismissed the bird. Then the owner told me that he had been taking the bird home after each session and setting him down in the presence of his hens to see his response. He stated that after each session his aim was true and he felt the acupuncture had been successful. I have since acupunctured several other birds for lameness. ? H. Grady Young, D.V.M. IME 209 . . Paracentesis of the contents of the egg in an egg-bound bird is a good way to relieve pressure and* solve the problem. In some larger birds this can be done through the cloaca, but in most it is done through the taut abdominal wall. Bleeding is minimal, dangerous manipulations are avoided, and the bird will pass the egg later on its own. Of course, this technique is used only in severe cases if normal manipulation has failed or is deemed unsafe. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., D.V.M. IME 210 . . After surgery on a pet bird, we roll the patient in a towel with only the head protruding. As the bird recovers, it will work its way out of the towel without thrashing around. When it finally frees itself, it will be able to stand and perch. This method is the best way to avoid post-op recovery injuries. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., D.V.M.</page><page sequence="6">-34 IME 211 SOME SUGGESTED USES FOR SURGICAL GLUE I have been experimenting with surgical glue (Cyanodent - Ell man International) for about a year, and have found it to be a valuable addition to my bird practice. I have used it to close all kinds of surgery, from fria ble uterus tissue that wouldn't hold stitches, to putting a thin layer over rolling stitches in the stomach after a gastrotomy, to closing skin incisions. In fact, in one of my experimental cockatiels, I did an entire pro cedure by closing all incisions with the surgical glue with no ill effects. I use surgical glue to seal over bleeding beaks and nails. If these are bleeding so pro fusely that you are unable to dab them dry, grind with Monsel!s first, then apply the glue. A finch I was working with had a nerve injury of the toe and kept it curled under his foot, so that when he walked, he further injured it and prevented healing. I straightened out the toe and painted a thin layer of surgical glue on top, which acted like a splint and kept the toe flat while it healed. If deep, penetrating beak cracks, chips or holes are not pro tected from contamination, fungal or bacterial invasion can occur, resulting in delamination. Using a dental drill, I clean out the injury, flush with a dilute io dine solution and dry thoroughly. I haven't yet hit on the secret for long-term adhesion to the beak, so to hold the cover in place over the injury, I drill a series of tiny holes on each side of the injury, angling in from the top to the bottom (keying). The area is then lined with a calcium hy droxide paste (Hypo-Cal - Ellman). CyanoveneerR (Ellman) powder is mixed into the Cyanodent liquid (tints can be added to match the color) on a glazed mixing pad and applied over the area, including the drilled holes, which serve as a dove tail to hold the material in place, A coat of Quick Set immediately hardens the material. (Even when cutting puppies1 tails, I had found that using the surgical glue to close them preventec the weeping, swelling, scarring and opening up that sometimes occurred with stitches. I would suggest leaving some extra hair at the end, roll the cut edges under and apply the glue to the roll.) Surgical glue is superior to the more widely available "Super Glue" in that it is an ethyl compound, which is compatible with tissue and has less chance of causing damage, whereas Super Glue is methyl, and is toxic to tissues. Ellman has recently developed an isobutyl tissue glue (Tissu Glu ) which offers more elasticity. There are several cautions you should be aware of, however. First of all, make sure the area you intend to apply it to is totallV~ dry. I started out using a PCV tube to deliver the glue for better control of the amount, but Ellman has now developed a micropipette for that purpose. The glue should be applied in very thin layers, and will be dry within seconds if properly applied. If you have used too much, or applied it too thick, it will take too long to- go off, and the tissue will spread apart before it dries. Try to keep the glue on the outside as much as possible. Put the healing edges together and roll slightly to the inside, then apply the glue on top of the roll. Pet roleum jelly prevents adherence to unwanted surfaces . Although the glue is used to close corneal punctures in humans, I would hesitate to use it in the eyes of birds. I have found the fumes to be irritating to the birds, therefore I would recommend usir^^ it only in a well-ventilated arew I would also recommend using injectible anesthesia, as the gas given off may have a synergisitc effect to deepen inhalation anesthesi Greg J. Harrison, D.V.M.</page></plain_text>