<plain_text><page sequence="1">278 The inference drawn by Dr. Marcet from the general resemblance is, that the river Jordan might possibly be the source of the saline in- gredients of the Dead Sea, or that the same source of impregnation might be common to both. The Bakerian Lecture, on some new Phenomena of chemical Changes produced by Electricity, particularly the Decomposition of the fixed Alkalies, and the Exhibition of the new substances which constitute their bases; and on the general Nature of alkaline Bodies. By Humphry Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. M.R.I.A. Read November 19, 1807. [Phil. Trans. 1808, p. 1.] In this lecture Mr. Davy, after recalling to our recollection the series of experiments described in his last Bakerian lecture, in which various bodies, consisting of known ingredients, having the highest known affinities for each other, were decomposed by the agency of electricity, reminds us also of a conjecture which he then formed, that a greater intensity of the same power might likewise overcome the affinities of other elements which had not hitherto been sepa- rated, and proceeds to inform us that this conjecture is now fully verified; for that by a laborious experimental application of the powers of electro-chemical analysis, he has been enabled to decom- pose various bodies which have appeared simple when examined by common chemical means. Those of his experiments which are in the most mature state, re- late to the decomposition of the fixed alkalies, and to the evolution of new and extraordinary bodies which constitute their bases. His first attempts to effect the decomposition of these alkalies were defeated by the presence of water, since on that occasion he employed saturated solutions of them in water. In his second attempt, since solid dry potash is a perfect non-con- ductor, he kept it in a state of fusion by intense heat, during elec- trization by a voltaic battery, consisting of 100 6-inch plates, highly charged. Under these circumstances the potash became a conductor; and brilliant light, witli an appearance of flame at the negative wire, seemed to prove the development of combustible matter at this point of contact; but on account of the heat employed, no such product could be collected. The method which he next pursued was more successful, as he found that a very slight addition of moisture renders potash a con- ductor, and that in this state it readily fuses by the electric power, which at the same time effects its decomposition. When a piece of potash, weighing as much as forty or fifty grains, was exposed under these circumstances to the action of the battery, consisting of 100 plates of six inches, with 150 of four inches in in- tense activity, the potash began to fuse at both its points of electri- zation. There was a violent effervescence at the upper, or positive surface (by extrication of oxygen gas, as afterwards appeared), while at the lower, or negative surface, there was no liberation of elastic</page><page sequence="2">279 fluid, but a formation of small globules, having a bright metallic splendour and a perfect resemblance to quicksilver; but they tarnished rapidly at their surface, and were in general soon covered by a white film, but occasionally burned with explosion and a white flame. These globules were soon proved, by numerous experiments, to be a peculiar inflammable principle, the basis of potash. The platina used, as the medium, for communicating the electric power, was proved not to have contributed otherwise to the result than as a conductor; for by substituting other conductors, as copper, silver, gold, plumbago, or charcoal, the same substance was formed by means of them. Its formation was also independent of the pre- sence of air, as it took place equally under an exhausted receiver. Soda, when acted upon in the same manner, and under similar cir- cumstances, exhibited analogous results; but it required far greater intensity of action, and could not be decomposed in pieces which exceeded fifteen or twenty grains in weight. That the substances thus produced were evolved by the decom- position of the alkalies, was proved by careful examination of the gas extricated from the upper surface, which was found to be pure oxygen; and again proved synthetically, by ascertaining that they absorbed oxygen gas, to which they were exposed, and that the com- pounds resulting were, in fact, the respective alkalies that had been employed for their formation. The affinity of the base of potash for oxygen is such, that its me- tallic lustre very rapidly tarnishes in the atmosphere, by the forma- tion of a white crust, which, by attracting moisture, is soon converted into a saturated solution of potash. With the base of soda the phenomena are perfectly analogous, but less rapid; and when either of them is heated in oxygen gas, a rapid combustion, with brilliant white flame, is produced. Oxygen gas is absorbed in this process, and nothing emitted to affect the purity of the residual air. It appears, then, says Mr. Davy, that in these facts there is the same evidence for the decomposition of potash and soda into oxygen and their peculiar bases, and for their recomposition, that there is for the decomposition and formation of any metallic oxide, or of the sulphuric or phosphoric acids. In the analytic experiments no substances are present but the al- kalies and a minute portion of water, which, in its common form, seems in no other way essential to the result, than by rendering them capable of becoming fluid, and conductors at a lower temperature than that at which their combustible bases burn; for if the quantity of water be increased, no such result is obtained. These bases seem to be repelled, as other combustible substances, by positively electrified surfaces, and attracted by negative surfaces, and hence are formed at that side in the electric circuit. The properties of these bodies are such, that in the first place it is extremely difficult to preserve them, and to confine them for experi- ments; such is their affinity for oxygen, that they act on almost</page><page sequence="3">280 every fluid in which they are attempted to be kept, and more or less on the solid ingredients of the vessels in which they are examined. The fluid substance containing the least oxygen, and consequently best adapted for preserving them, is naphtha recently distilled. In this they may be kept many days without any considerable change; and when taken out of it, their physical properties may be conveniently examined in the atmosphere while their surface is yet moist, and pro- tected by a thin film of naphtha. The base of potash, at the temperature of 60?, appears as a fluid globule, having the full metallic lustre, opacity, and so much the ge- neral appearance of a globule of mercury, that a difference cannot be detected by the eye. Its fluidity, however, even at this temperature, is not perfect, and at 50? it becomes a soft solid; at 40? it is mal- leable, and has the lustre of polished silver: at about the freezing point of water it is brittle, and when broken, its fragments exhibit a crystalline texture. When its temperature is, on the contrary, raised to 1000, its fluidity is perfect; and when it is heated to a degree approaching to redness, it boils, and after distillation is found in its condensed form unaltered. Like metals, it is a perfect conductor of electricity; but when the globule exposed is too small for the quantity of electricity to be transmitted, it is completely dissipated with explosion, accompanied with a vivid wvhite light. It is also, like most known metals, an excellent conductor of heat, when brought into contact with mercury, &amp;c. When the base of potash is brought into contact with mercury, it instantly amalga- mates. If the globule of mercury be much the larger, the compound appears to be more fluid than mercury; but when the mercury ex- ceeds in size only in the proportion of 2 to 1, the compound, though fluid at first from the heat of union, consolidates as it cools, and ap- pears as a soft metal, similar to silver. The fluid compound unites with all metals that have been exposed to it, acting readily even upon iron and platina. The base of potash will also combine with other metals without the assistance of mercury, if applied to them in its fluid state; and it is remarkable, that in most instances the point of fusion of the compound is much higher than could be expected from that of the ingredients. With sulphur and with phosphorus it also combines, and the com- pounds agree in appearance with the metallic sulphurets and phos- phorets. But though it resembles the metals in all these properties, it dif- fers from all most remarkably in specific gravity, since it rises to the surface even in doubly-distilled naphtha, of which the specific gravity is only T7-,th of water. As the quantity which can be obtained is necessarily small, it is difficult to determine any points in which quantities are concerned, with minute precision; and accordingly the average obtained from several experiments, conducted with great care, and with a very</page><page sequence="4">281 delicate balance, can only be considered as a near approximation to the truth. By an average of four such trials of its specific gravity, its weight when compared to that of an equal globule of mercury, was as 10 to 223, which gives its proportion to that of water nearly as 6 to 10, so that it is the lightest fluid body yet known to chemists. In consequence of the great affinity of this body for oxygen, it decomposes water instantly, with great heat, accompanied with ex- plosion and a brilliant flame. By its union with oxygen, potash is formed and is found dissolved in the water; while hydrogen, in its nascent state, uniting to another portion, becomes spontaneously in- flammable at the time of its formation. The heat during combustion is such, that when a globule of the base of potash was placed upon ice, it burned instantly with a bright flame, and a deep hole was made in the ice, which contained a strong solution of potash. Such is the attraction of this substance for oxygen, and so great the energy of its action upon water, that it discovers and decomposes the small quantities of water contained in alcohol and ether, even when they are most carefully purified. The properties of the base of soda are in all respects so analogous to those of the base of potash, that in this abstract it will be suffi- cient to notice only those circumstances in which they principally differ. The specific gravity of the base of soda exceeds that of the base of potash; but it is inferior to that of water in the proportion of 9 to 10. Its point of fusion is also so much higher, that at all common temperatures of the atmosphere it appears as a soft and extremely malleable metal; and it does not fuse till exposed to a heat exceed- ing 1500 Fahrenheit, and does not become volatile in a heat sufficient to melt plate-glass. In proportion to the less fusibility of this body, its oxidation is less rapid, and its combustion when heated less vivid than the former. In the decomposition of water also, which it effects immediately, there is no luminous appearance, although it is accompanied with violent effervescence and a loud hissing noise. In endeavouring to determine the proportion in which each of these bases unites with oxygen to form potash or soda, Mr. Davy is again necessarily limited in accuracy by want of sufficient quantity of materials for experiment; but by a comparison of different methods, in each of which the results of several trials were taken, he had reason to be convinced, from their coincidence, that there could be no consi- derable error. In his attempt to ascertain this point by direct union, he had va- rious difficulties to overcome from the action of the simple base or of the compound product on the vessel employed, and from the affi- nity of the alkali for water, which would affect the apparent result. By an average, however, of six experiments, selected as the most carefully made, and under the most favourable circumstances, he in- ferred that 100 parts of potash consist of 86 base and 14 oxygen;</page><page sequence="5">t82 and in the same manner, that 100 parts of soda contain 81 base and 19 oxygen. The other method consisted in collecting the hydrogen evolved from water by a known quantity of each base, and estimating from them the quantity of oxygen absorbed. The mean of two such ex- periments on the base of potash, gave the proportion of 15I per cent. oxygen, and the mean of three trials upon soda, showed it to contain 20 per cent. oxygen. So that the general average of both methods authorizes us to con- sider potash as containing 15 of oxygen, and soda 20 of oxygen, per cent. Since oxygen had thus been proved to enter into the constitution of the fixed alkalies, Mr. Davy was led to conjecture that it might also form a constituent part of ammonia. For though the apparent conversion of ammonia into mere nitrogen and hydrogen in the ex- periments of Scheele and of Priestley, as well as in the more refined and masterly experiments of Berthollet, had left no doubt of its na- ture on the minds of chemists in general, it was not impossible that a small quantity of water in their results might have been overlooked, when dissolved in the gases or deposited on the vessels employed, or might even be neglected, as not arising from elements essential to the construction of the ammonia. His conjecture was confirmed in the first place by the formation of carbonic acid in the purest and driest ammoniacal gas, by means of charcoal intensely ignited by a voltaic battery. When Mr. Davy had afterwards exposed the base of potash to ammoniacal gas, and had ascertained the formation of potash, no doubt was left of the presence of oxygen, although its proportion could not by these means be ascertained. For the purpose of deter- mining the proportion, and at the same time of avoiding any fallacy that might be occasioned by the presence of water in the ammoniacal gas, even in its state of hygrometrical dryness, Mr. Davy had re- course to the apparatus employed by Messrs. Allen and Pepys for the combustion of the diamond. The gas, after being carefully prepared and dried, was passed over the surface of iron wire ignited in the platina tube, furnished with an additional apparatus for condensing any water that might be formed in the experiment. In the course of a quarter of an hour four grains of ammoniacal. gas were decomposed. The iron wire had gained -Z-,ths of a grain. and a quantity of water was moreover collected, which weighed full four tenths of a grain. From the amount of the oxygen contained in the water, together with that which caused the increase of weight in the iron, Mr. Davy infers that 100 parts of ammonia contain nearly 20 of oxygen. We may therefore consider oxygen as existing in, and as forming an essential element of all the three alkalies; so that this principle of acidity, as it is termed in the French nomenclature, might now equally be called the principle of alkalization. From analogy alone, it is reasonable to presume that the alkaline</page><page sequence="6">283 earths are compounds of a similar nature; and in some experiments upon both barytes and strontian, inflammable matter was produced at the negative surface, and burned with a red flame. This matter Mr. Davy has much reason to believe was the basis of the earth em- ployed. Moreover, although these earths have the strongest rela- tion to the alkalies, there is also a further chain of resemblances through lime, magnesia, glucine, alumine, and silex; each of which, there is some reason to imagine, may yield new elements when sub- jected to analysis by electric attraction and repulsion. Nor, indeed, are our hopes or expectations confined to the decomposition of earthy substances; as there is equal reason to suppose that the three acids which have hitherto resisted decomposition, by the usual means of chemical analysis, may nevertheless yield the oxygen which they have been presumed to contain when subjected to the more intense action of electro-chemical affinity. On the Structure and Uses of the Spleen. By Everard Home, Esq. F.R.S. Read November 26, 1807. [Phil. Trans. 1808, p. 45.] Mr. Home, in the course of his late investigation of the functions of the stomach, having observed that the pyloric and cardiac portions of that cavity were separated in many animals by a permanent divi- sion, and in most by at least a temporary muscular contraction, during the process of digestion; and having also found that the food in the pyloric portion has in general nearly the same consistence, was led to consider by what means the quantity of fluid frequently taken at meals could be absorbed from the cardiac portion; and he imagined the spleen, from its contiguity to the stomach, to be the most natural channel for that purpose. To ascertain whether liquids do really pass from the stomach by any other channel than the pylorus, that passage was secured by a ligature in a living dog, and five ounces of fluid coloured with indigo were injected into the stomach. At the end of half an hour,'two ounces were brought up by vomiting; and the dog being killed, one ounce was found remaining in the stomach; so that two ounces had escaped. The spleen was turgid: and upon making a transverse section of it, the cut surface presented an appearance of molecules or vesicles of a white colour, surrounded by the small ramifications of the arteries and plexuses of small veins. In Mr. Home's next experiment, he endeavoured to detect the course of the fluid from the stomach of a dog, by employing a decoc- tion of madder; but though the urine appeared to be somewhat tinged with the madder, no such colour could be discerned in the spleen. At the suggestion of Mr. William Brande, he next substituted tincture of rhubarb, the presence of which might be made very evi- dent by the addition of an alkali, which occasions it to assume a brownish red colour. After having learned, by various trials, by what time and within what period the effect of rhubarb might be perceived in the urine of</page></plain_text>