<plain_text><page sequence="1">[ 453 ] PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. 1836. No. 28. December 8,1836. FRANCIS BAILY, Esq., V.P. and Treas., in the Chair. Charles Mackenzie, Esq., who at the last Anniversary had ceased to be a Fellow from the non-payment of his annual contribution, was, at this meeting, re-admitted by ballot into the Society, agree- ably to the provision of the Statutes. A paper was read, entitled, " Inquiries respecting the Constitu? tion of Salts. Of Oxalates, Nitrates, Phosphates, Sulphates, and Chlorides." By Thomas Graham, Esq., F.R.S. Edin., Professor of Chemistry in the Andersonian University of Glasgow, Correspond? ing Member of the Royal Academy of Sciences of Berlin, &amp;c. Com? municated by Richard Phillips, Esq., F.R.S. The results which the author had obtained from his former expe? riments, and of which he communicated an account to the Royal Society, suggested to him the probability that the law with re? spect to warer being a constituent of sulphates, would extend also to any hydrated acid and the magnesian salt of that acid. As he had already found that the sulphate of water is constituted like the sulphate of magnesia, so he now finds the oxalate of water to re? semble the oxalate of magnesia, and the nitrate of water to resem? ble the nitrate of magnesia. His researches render it probable that the correspondence between water and the magnesian class of oxides extends beyond their character as bases; and that in certain subsalts of the magnesian class of oxides, the metallic oxide replaces the water of crystallization of the neutral salt, and discharges a func? tion which was thought peculiar to water. In the formation of a double sulphate, the author finds that a certain degree of substitu- tion or displacement occurs; such as the displacement of an atom of water pertaining to the sulphate of magnesia, by an atom of sul? phate of potash, to form the double sulphate of magnesia and pot? ash. The same kind of displacement appears to occur, likewise, in the construction of double oxalates; and the application of this principle enables us to understand the constitution both of the double and super-oxalates, and to explain the mode of their deriva- tion.</page><page sequence="2">451 The author then proceeds to apply these principles to the analy? sis ofthe oxalates; and Ist, of the oxalate of water, or hydrated oxalic acid; 2ndly, of oxalate ofzinc; 3rdly, of oxalate of magnesia; 4thly, of oxalate oflime- 5thly, of oxalate of barytes ; Gthly, of oxalate of potash; /tlily, of binoxalate of potash; 8thly, of quad- roxalate of potash; 9thly, of oxalate of ammonia- lOthly, of oxalate ofsoda; llthly, of binoxalate of soda; and lastly, of the double oxalates, such as, 1st, oxalate of potash and copper; 2ndly, oxalate of chromium and potash; Srdly, oxalate of peroxide of iron and potash ,- and 4thly, of oxalate of peroxide of iron and soda. In the second section he treats of the nitrates; and 1st, of hy? drated nitric acid, or the nitrate of water j 2ndly, of nitrate of cop? per j Srdly, of subnitrate of copper; 4thly, of nitrate and subnitrate of bismuth ; 5thly, of nitrate ofzinc; Gthly, of nitrate of magnesia; and 7thly, of supposed double nitrates and supei nitrates. He con? cludes, from his experiments on this subject, that there is no proof ofthe existence ofa single supernitrate. In the third section he discusses the constitution ofthe phos? phates. Phosphoric acid, he observes, is quite peculiar in being capable of combining with bases in three different proportions ; forming, besides the usual class of monobasic salts, containing one atom of acid to one atom of protoxide as base, two other anormal classes of salts, in which two or three atoms of base are united to one atom of acid, namely, the pyrophosphates and the common phosphates, as they are usually denominated, but which the author proposes to designate by the terms, bibasic, and tribasic phosphates. Arsenic acid forms only one class of salts; but that class is anormal; every member of it containing three atoms of base to one atom of acid, like the common, or tribasic, phosphates. These anormal classes of phosphates and arseniates, with, perhaps, the phosphites, are, the author believes, the only known salts to which the ordinary idea ofa subsalt is truly applicable: all other reputed subsalts be? ing probably neutral in composition, as has been shown by the au? thor in the case of the subnitrate of copper -} for they all bear an analogy to this salt in their small solubility and other properties, while they exhibit little resemblance to those classes of phosphates and arseniates which rcally possess more than one atom of base. A table is then given, containing the formulae expressing the composi? tion ofthe most important phosphates, together with a new nomen- clature by which, in aceordanee with his views, the author proposes to designate these salts. He then enters into the details of experi? ments illustrating the composition of, 1st, tribasic phosphate ofsoda, ammonia, and water, (or the microcosmic salt ofthe old chemists): 2ndly, tribasic phosphate of zinc and water, (or what is commonly called phosphate ofzinc): Srdly, tribasic arseniate of magnesia and water, (the common arseniate of magnesia): 4thly, tribasic phosphate of magnesia and water, (or ordinary phosphate of magnesia): and 5thly, tribasic phosphate of magnesia and ammonia, (or ammoniaco- magnesian phosphate). In the fourth section he treats of sulphates, and supports, by fur-</page><page sequence="3">455 ther evidence, the opinion he formerly advanced; thatas bisulphate of potash is a double sulphate of water and potash, and therefore neutral in its composition, so, with the sole exception ofthe anor- tnal class already noticed, all salts, usually considered as bisalts are, in like manner, really neutral in composition. He shows that this theory is strictly applicahle to the red chromate of potash, which appeared to present a difficulty. The chlorides are next considered. The law followed by the chlorides of the magnesian class of metals appears to be that they have two atoms of water strongly attached tothem, and which may, therefore, be regarded as constitutional. Thus, chloride of copper crystalli/:es with two atoms of water, and with no lower proportion; but several chlorides of this class have two or four atoms more; the proportion of water advancing by multiples of two atoms. The chlorides have probably their analoguesin the cyanides, although we are less acquainted with the single cyanides of iron, copper, &amp;c: but the disposition ofthe protocyanide of iron, and of thecyanide of copper to combine with two atoms of cyanide of potassium, may de? pend on the cyanides of iron and of copper possessing, like the cor? responding chlorides, two atoms of constitutional water, which are displaced by two atoms of the alkaline cyanide in the formation of the double cyanides.</page></plain_text>