<plain_text><page sequence="1">avian conservation news_ by Robert Groskin EFFECT OF CHERNOBYL DISASTER ON BIRDS A Rountable Discussion during the International Ornithological Con ference held this summer in Ottawa, Canada, focused on the effects of the Chernobyl nuclear plant disaster on the wild avian population. Chernobyl is on a major migra tory flyway between Africa and the Ukraine. The disaster occurred during the northward spring migra tion. Although livestock had been monitored closely for radiation contamination, wildlife probably re flect a more accurate assessment of contamination because livestock were fed "clean*1 feed. Wildlife contam ination could affect fish and wild game, both mammals and birds. The National Wildlife Federation has asked the U.S. Environmental Protec tion Agency to monitor and study the problem, citing the last USSR Conven tion to Protect Migratory Birds and Their Habitat. (In 1983, the AAV passed a resolu tion urging a freeze on a! I nuclear weapons development, deployment and testing. In 1986, the AVA passed a resolution supporting the study of nuclear, chemical and biz'ogical disasters and their effects on ani mals. Persons interestec in more information should write the Aca demy of Disaster Veterinary Medicine, c/o Robert Shomer, 1680 ~eaneck Road, Teaneck, NJ 07666.) IDEAS FOR PROMOTING CONSERVATION IN YOUR OFFICE/PRACTICE 1. Join one or more of the conservation organizations (see oppo site). Most of these groups supply stickers or logos that you can post on a bulletin board to let clients know that you support conservation. 2. Get a subscription to Ranger Rick or The Big Backyard [children's publications from the National Wild life Federation, 8925 Leesburg Pike, Vienna, VA 22184) and keep copies in your waiting room. Send your conservation education ideas to the Newsletter Cffice. By Susan Wells ENDANGERED LEAR'S MACAW UNDER STUDY The World Wildlife Fund is as sisting Brazilian conservationists in efforts to protect the rare Lear's Macaw. Although captive Lear's Ma caws were described over 100 years ago, it was only in 1978 that the location of the bird's natural habi tat was discovered. The only known range of the individual is Raso de Caterlna, a canyon surrounded by farms. Local hunting, black market poachers and farmers pose a serious threat to this small relative of the Hyacinth Macaw. FLORIDA BIRD ADDED TO ENDANGERED LIST The Florida Grasshopper Sparrow (Ammodramus savannarum f1oridanus), a native to the prairie region of south-central Florida has been added to the endangered species list. Surveys conducted between 1980 and 1984 indicate a present population of only 250 adults. Loss of natural habitat to improved pasture is the principle reason for the decline of this species. THICK-BILLED PARROTS SEIZED Durinq the first few months of 1986 a number of Thick-billed Parrots have been seized by U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service agents. Listed as endangered under the U.S. Endangered Species Act of 1973, it is illegal to import, receive, carry, transport, ship or offer for sale in interstate commerce a Thick-billed Parrot or any other endangered wildlife. Thick billed Parrots are found in highland pine forets in central Mexico, but are now endangered due to human en croachment and habitat destruction by logging. Thick-billed Parrots once ranged Into the U.S. and were ob served 1n sporadic flocks during the 1930's. LIST OF CONSERVATION ORGANIZATIONS A list of conservation and wild life organizations is available for copying and distribution to clients. Send requests to: Susan Wells, DVM, Audubon Park Zoo, 6500 Magazine, New Orleans, LA 70118. 75</page></plain_text>