<plain_text><page sequence="1">-42 Husbandry I ME 458 ? . NARCOTIC IN SUNFLOWER SEEDS? There have been statements distributed as parts of advertisements claiming that sunflower seeds contain a natural substance called papaverine that is an addictive narcotic. As part of our evaluation of sunflower seeds, support for these various statements has been sought in the literature and from those making the claims. The final work on this subject is yet to be written, but at this time there is no evidence to suggest either that there is any papaverine in sunflower seeds or that it would be a harmful component of the diet if it were present. Papaverine is not considered to be either addictive or narcotic by pharmacologists, who classify it instead as a muscle relaxant. Such confusion of information and claims would not occur if those who take strong positions concerning the health and well-being of birds would support their statements with documented observations and experiments, rather than by opinion alone. Excerpt from "Exotic Bird Report" Dept. of Avian Sciences University of California IME 459 . . WEIGHT REDUCTION IN BIRDS Owners of parrots are often concerned about overly fat birds, and they ask how to maintain a relatively lean body mass in their birds. Sunflower seeds are often blamed, particularly because some birds relish them to the exclusion of other foods. There have been no published reports, but in one experiment with cockatiels in which immature birds were fed only whole sunflower seed for 60 days, body weight increased, but similar birds fed only millet or canary seed increased their weight even more. Studies of diet and body composition in poultry and other animals have shown that diets rich in fat are more likely to produce a fat body than low-fat diets. There is considerable variation among individual parrots, and some species are more likely than others to become fat. No single solution to this problem can be suggested, but factors which would help to prevent or reduce body fat deposition are: (1) the ingestion of less energy; (2) an increase in exercise; and (3) a reduction in the air temperature of the room in which the birds are kept. Any or all of these changes in aspects of the bird's life will reduce the availability of excess energy that can be stored as fat. Excerpt from "Exotic Bird Report" Dept. of Avian Sciences University of California IME 460 . . ACCEPTANCE OF FEED PELLETS BY COCKATIELS (From Western Poultry Disease Conference) Controlled studies on the acceptance of feed pellets by cocka tiels suggested that repeated exposure to the diet was eventually successful even in temporarily resistant birds. In the first attempt, it became obvious that some 10% of the birds would rather starve than eat it. By the 4th day into the trial, if the body weight was less than 85% of initial body weight, seeds were reintroduced and a repeat trial scheduled for later.</page><page sequence="2">During the second and third trials, some 10% of each of those groups were still resisting, until there was one bird left, who even tually accepted it the fourth time around. We actually used crumbled, sieved pellets, as we found the birds tended to carry around the larger pellets in their mouths and waste more. There may be some criteria we can develop for different birds to evaluate the acceptance of a pelleted diet and make it a little less painful. Tom Roudybush University of CA, Davis</page></plain_text>