<plain_text><page sequence="1">221 labyrinth, protects the ear from the injurious influence of very powerful vibrations. 3. The stapedius muscle, by slightly relaxing the membrana tympani and the fluid of the labyrinth, places the ear in a position to be influenced by vibrations of a most delicate character. 4. Another function of the membrana tympa'ni is to form part of the resonant walls of the closed tympanic cavity. 5. The guttural orifices of the Eustachian tubes are closed, and the tympanic cavities do not communicate with the cavity of the fauces excepting during certain muscular actions. 6. In man and some mammalia the Eustachian tubes are opened by the muscles of the palate, in other animals by the superior con- strictor of the pharynx. 7. In birds there is a membranous tube common to the two osseous Eustachian tubes, and this common tube is opened by the action of the internal pterygoid muscles. 8. For the function of hearing to be perfect, it is requisite that the tympanic cavity should be closed from the outer air. 3. " An Experimental Inquiry undertaken with the view of ascer- taining whether any, and what signs of current Force are mnani- fested during the organic process of Secretion in living animals" (continued). By H. F. Baxter, Esq, Communicated by R. B. Todd, M. D., F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 30, 1852. The present communication is a continuation of a series of expe- riments, the first part of which was published in the Phil. Trans. for the year 1848. The object is to show that the changes which occur during the organic process of secretion in: living animals are accompanied with the manifestation of currentforce; and the prin- cipal facts upon which this conclusion is founded are the following:- 1st. It was found that when the electrodes of a galvanometer are brought into contact with the secreted product and the venous blood flowing from the same organ, an effect upon the needle is produced, indicating the venous blood to be positive. This fact was established in the liver, kidneys and mammary gland. 2ndly. The effect could not be referred to the heterogeneity of the fluids without assuming- that the blood was acid and combined with the secreted product; nor could it bc referred entirely to thermo- electric effects, inasmuch as the current varied in each organ, and was capable of traversing a liquid conductor. The effects, however, may be partly due to catalytic actions on the combining power of pla- tinum'; and this last supposition tended to confirm the opinion ori- ginally entertained by Wollaston, that the changes' which occur during secretiun are analogous to those which take place in the de- composing cell of a voltaic circle. Without giving any definite opinion as to the lungs performing the office of a secreting organ, it was found, that when one electrode was in contact with the mucous surface, and the other in contact with the blood in the pulmonary veins, an effect occarred upon the needle. indicating the blood (arterial) to be positive. This fact ap-</page><page sequence="2">222 pears to afford some explanation of the failures of Muller, Pouillet and of the author in his early attempts to obtain evidence of current force being manifested when a circuit was formed between an artery and a vein in the living animal. 4. " On a new Series of Organic Bodies containing Metals." By Dr. E. Frankland, Professor of Chemistry, Owen's College, Man. chester. Communicated by B. C. Brodie, Esq., F.R.S. Received May 10, 1852. The author communicates in this memoir the continuation of his researches, a preliminary announcement of which appeared several years ago, upon a new series of organic compounds closely allied to cacodyl in their composition and properties, and which, like that body, are formed by the union of the alcohol radicals with various metals, and are distinguished for their powerful electro-positive cha- racter. These remarkable compounds are procured by the action of heat or light upon their proximate constituents, and are thus distin- guished from most other organic compounds of this nature by the manner of their formation. The author describes seven of these compounds. Stanethylium.---When iodide of ethyl and metallic tin are exposed to the influence of heat or light, which is most conveniently done in sealed glass tubes, the tin gradually dissolves in the ethereal liquid, which finally solidifies to a mass of colourless crystals. A quantity of gas, comparatively very small, is generated at the same time. This gaseous product of the reaction proved, on analysis, to be a mixture of hydride of ethyl and olefiant gas, produced from the. de- composition of iodide of ethyl by tin into iodide of tin.and ethyl, which last is transformed -at the moment of its liberation into the two gases just mentioned. The principal and most important re- action, however, consists in the direct union of tin with iodide of ethyl, giving rise to a crystalline body which is the iodide of a new organic radical, stanethylium. By double decomposition the other compounds of stanethylium can be readily formed; the author has prepared and described the oxide, chloride, bromide and sulphide of stanethylium; these bodies exhibit a striking resemblance to the corresponding bi-compounds of tin, but are distinguished from them by a peculiar pungent and irri- tating odour resembling that of the volatile oil of mustard. If a slip of zinc be immersed in a solution of chloride of stan- ethylium, dense oily drops soon form on the surface of the zinc, and finally collect at the bottom of the vessel. This oily liquid is the radical stanethylium, which possesses the following properties :-it exists at ordinary temperatures as a thick heavy oily liquid of a yellow or brownish-yellow colour, and an exceedingly pungent odour resembling that of its compounds, but much more powerful. It is insoluble in water, but soluble in alcohol and ether. At about 150? C. it enters into ebullition, but is simultaneously decomposed, metallic- tin being deposited In contact with air stanethylium rapidly absorbs oxygen, and is converted into oxide of stanethylium.</page></plain_text>