<plain_text><page sequence="1">January 20. HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF SUSSEX, President, in the Chair. William John Blake, Esq. M.A. was elected a Fellow. The following Presents were received, and thanks ordered for them:? Transactions of the Society for the Encouragement of Arts, Ma- nufactures, and Commerce, for the year 1829. 8vo.?Presented by the Society. Proceedings of the Committee of Science and Correspondence of the Zoological Society of London. (Nov. 9, to Dec. 4, 1830.) 8vo.?The Society. On the Probable Connection of Rock Basins, in Form and Situation, with an internal Concretionary Structure in the Rocks on which they occur: introduced by Remarks on the alleged Artificial Origin of those Cavities. By E. W. Brayley, Jun., Esq. 8vo.? The Author. Tabulae Regiomontanse Reductionum Observationum Astronomi- carum ab Annol750 usque ad Annum 1850 computatae. Auctore F. W. Bessel. 8vo.~The Author. The reading of Mr. Ivory's Paper was resumed and concluded. The author considers the essential property of a fluid, and that on which its definition should be founded, as consisting in the perfect mobility of its particles among one another. If abstraction be made of the force of gravity, or other accelerating force, when a conti- nuous fluid is at rest, and consequently in a state of equilibrium, all its particles are equally pressed in every direction, are equally distant from one another, and are similarly arranged about every in? terior point. No fluid is absolutely incompressible; but the degree of compressibility may be conceived to be so small as not to affect the results j and itis accordingly disregarded in the investigations which occupy the present paper. These investigations are built on the assumption that the hydro- static pressure at every point of the fluid is the same function of the three rectangular co-ordinates of the point drawn to three planes intersecting one another at right angles. The author shows that the algebraical expressions of the accelerating forces prod ucing the pres? sure are not entirely arbitrary ; because they must necessarily be equal to the partial differential co-efficients of a function of three in? dependent variables, and therefore they are likewise the same func-</page><page sequence="2">21 tions of the co-ordinates of their point of action in every part ofthe mass. This is one ofthe conditions required for the equilibrium of a mass of homogeneous fluid; and a second necessary condition is, that these functions of the ordinates are capable of being integrated. When these two conditions are fulfilled, the determination of the figure of equilibrium is reduced to a question purely mathematical. For we can form an equation expressive of an equilibrium between the accelerating forces and the variation of pressure, and by integra- ting this equation we may obtain the hydrostatic pressure ; whence may be deduced the equation of all those points at which there is no pressure, that is, of the outer surface of the fluid. All that is then requisite for securing the permanence of the figure of the fluid, is that the pressures propagated through the mass be either supported, or mutually balance one another. The upper surface, which is at liberty, and where there is no pressure, and all interior surfaces, where the pressure is constant, have the same differential equation ; and from this the author infers that such surfaces are perpendicular to the resultant ofthe accelerating forces acting upon the particles con? tained in them. These interior surfaces were denominated by Clai- raut level surfaces; and they are distinguished by the two proper? ties of being equally pressed at all their points, and of cutting the re? sultant of the forces at right angles. The author next extends the investigation toheterogeneous fluids, the different parts of which vary in their density, and deduces a si? milar conclusion to the former with respect tothe perpendicularity of the interior level surfaces to the resultant of the accelerating forces, which act upon the particles situated in each surface respectively. He discusses the hypothesis of Clairaut, of narrow canals traversing the mass in various directions, and shows that the same results follow from it as from the general theory. The conditions laid down by Clairaut, and all other authors, as those which are necessary for the equilibrium of ahomogeneous fluid, are these two :?first, the accelerating forces must be expressed by the partial differential co-efficients ofa function of three independent co-ordinates; secondly, the resultant of the forces in action at the upper surface at liberty must be perpendicular to that surface. The author shows that the second condition is a consequence of the first; and he states the independent conditions of equilibrium to be these :?first, the expressions ofthe forces must be the same func? tions of the co-ordinates in every part of the mass ; secondly, the same expressions must be the partial differential co-efficients of a function of three independent co-ordinates. In a very extensive class of problems, the difference in the two ways oflayingdown the conditionsofequilibrium disappears. Butthetheory of Clairaut cannot be extended to the cases in which the particles mutually attract or repel one another. or where the accelerating forces depend on the figure ofthe mass of fluid. Such is the condition ofa homogeneous planet in a fluid state, in which there are forces which prevail in the interior parts, but vanish at the surface; and v?hich are, therefore, not taken into account in Clairaut's theory. But since</page><page sequence="3">22 these forces tend to change the figure ofthe fluid, that theory is in- adequate to give an exact determination ofthe equilibrium in those cases. In the second part of the paper, the author applies his theory of the equilibrium of fluids to the determination ofthe figure ofthe pla? nets, under the supposition that they are composed wholly of fluid materials. For this purpose he first considers the problem of deter? mining the equilibrium of a homogeneous mass of fluid entirely at liberty, when the accelerating forces are known functions of the co? ordinates at their point of action. In the investigation of this pro? blem, he supposes that the centre of gravity is at rest, and undis- turbed by the action of any accelerating force. He then supposes the fluid to be in equilibrium, and that three planes are laid down, inter- secting one another at right angles in the centre of gravity of the mass, to which planes the particles of the fluid are referred by rectan? gular co-ordinates. The algebraical consequences of this supposition are then pursued, the conditions necessary to equilibrium pointed out, and the conclusion deduced, that the resultant ofthe accelera? ting forces is perpendicular to the outer surface, and also to the in? terior level surfaces ofthe fluid, at every point of which there is the same intensity of pressure. The figure ofthe fluid being determined, it remains to inquire, whether the equilibrium is secure; and the result of the inquiry furhishes an equation which proves that the par? ticles have no tendency to move, from any inequality of pressure. A further discussion is entered into in order to prove that thepres- sures propagated from the surfaces into the interior parts balance and destroy one another, which completely establishes the permanence of the figure of the fluid. It is also shown that the mass of fluid, under these circumstances, has no tendency to turn upon an axis. To illustrate the foregoing problem, the author applies it to the de? termination of the figure of equilibrium of a homogeneous mass of fluid entirely at liberty, of which the particles attract one another with a force directly proportional to the distance, at the same time that they are urged by a centrifugal force caused by rotation about an axis. Fle then enters upon the investigation of the second problem, in which the law of attraction ofthe particles is that ofthe inverse du- plicate ratio of the distance; and finally arrives at the conclusion, that the form of the fluid in equilibrium is, exclusively of all other figures, an oblate elliptical spheroid of revolution, and that its axis of rotation is the lesser axis of the spheroid. He also shows that within the spheroid there are no more than two sets of surfaces equally pressed by the action ofthe exterior fluid; and no more than two diffe? rent spheroids of equilibrium answering to the same rotatory motion. If the whole spheroid be one of small oblateness, the greatest ofthe interior surfaces of equable pressure, which is not a level surface, stands upon the equator ; and the rest are within this, and are simi? lar to it, and similarly posited. When it is very oblate, the greatest of these surfaces is described about the lesser axis; and the rest are within it, and are similar to it, and similarly posited. The existence</page><page sequence="4">23 of two sets of interior surfaces, that are equally pressed at ali their points by the action of the exterior fluid, is inconsistent with Clairaut's theory, and is a proof of the insufficiency of that theory for deter? mining the figure ofa homogeneous planet.</page></plain_text>