<plain_text><page sequence="1">Pigeon Medicine IME 706 .. Review of Levamisole Use in Pigeons Even with the advent of ivermec tin, levamisole remains the most widely used anthelmintic for pigeons. Its primary advantages are its effec tiveness against most worms, espec ially Capillaria, and its ease of use in flock or Individual bird treat ments. The primary disadvantage is its potential for toxicity. The drug 1s available as a 13.65% injectable solution (Ripercol L, Tramisol), a 0.184 gram oblette, and a 20 mg tablet (Spartakon), manu factured especially for pigeons by Janssen Laboratories and distributed by Wildlife Laboratories of Fort Collins, Colorado. Janssen's re search shows the drug to be 99.5% effective against Ascaridia and 99.2% effective against Capillaria. Individual treatment can most easily be accomplished by admini stering Spartakon at a dose of 1 tablet per bird. The company recom mends this dosage no matter what the size of bird, but for toy breeds, 1/2 tablet should be sufficient and for the very large utility breeds, 1 1/2 to 2 tablets may be more effective. Another method that I personally have found successful is oral treat ment with the injectable solution, at a dose of 15-20 mg/lb p.o. A tuber culin syringe is used to draw up the dose, the needle is removed, and the drug is administered by mouth. An average Racing Homer would receive 0.15 cc (about 20 mg) and the very largest breeds, 0.25-0.30 cc. I do not recommend the use of levamisole as an injectable. Individual treatment is pre ferred for dosage control, however there may be times when flock treat ment is necessary or more convenient. Flock worming can be best accom plished by adding 10-12 cc of levami sole to 1 gallon of water (1500 mg/gallon water) and offering this as the only source of drinking water for 24 hours. I have had no experience with the oblettes; any potential solubility problems with the oblettes are eliminated by using the injec table solution. A frequent problem that may be encountered following oral admini stration of levamisole 1s vomiting. Information provided by Janssen sug gests that vomiting does not affect the therapeutic results of Spartakon because the tablets disintegrate in the crop and are immediately resorbed and eliminated in the Intestine; thus the expelled material contains less than 10% of the drug. Vomiting oc curs less frequently if the birds have fasted for 24 hours. The majority of worms are ex pelled during the first 24 hours after treatment. Worms cease to be eliminated after the third day, but eggs can still be expelled for up to one week, since eggs of Capillaria tend to adhere to the intestinal villi. Precautions must be taken to avoid reinfection. A thorough clea ning of the loft 1s essential. Since most chemical disinfectants are inef ficient, one of the best means of disinfection may be the use of a blow torch on the floor. Birds concur rently infected with Trichomonas or coccidia should be treated for opti mum results. Serial fecal flotations should be performed to monitor for reinfection. If preventive measures are not taken, the birds can be rein fected with Capillaria and Ascaridla within three to six weeks following treatment. -- Roger Harlin, DVM Oklahoma City, OK Pigeon practitioners are Invited to submit practice experiences to Roger Harlin (5420 S. Shields, Oklahoma City, OK 73129) for possible inclusion in future AAV publications. 94</page></plain_text>