<plain_text><page sequence="1">42 minute. In four hours the pulse had fallen to 120, but still inter- mitted. In seven hours the dog had a natural motion. Its pulse had returned to the natural standard of 140 in a minute, and he ap- peared perfectly recovered from the effects of the experiment. After three days, sixty drops of the same infusion were given to the same dog to swallow. In two hours he became languid; his pulse wiry and weak, but still 140 in a minute. In four hours the languor was less, the pulse natural. In eight hours he had a natural motion, and in eleven hours appeared perfectly recovered from this dose. The effects of this medicine upon the dog and upon Sir Everard Home, as far as they were sensible, were very similar, but differed in degree. Sir Everard, in consequence of an attack of the gout, took sixty drops of the Eau medicinale. In two hours he became hot and thirsty. In three hours the pain became tolerable while the limb was at rest. In seven hours he had a confined motion from the bowels. There was a degree of nausea. The pulse, iwhich is natu- rally 80, was lowered to 60 in a minute, with occasional intermis- sions. In ten hours little remained except some degree of languor, with the pulse at 70, which on the following morning was restored to its natural standard, with removal of all symptoms of gout. If these observations shall be confirmed,, says the author, we must conclude that the different kinds of substances which produce specific diseases are first carried into the circulation, in the same manner as mineral and animal poisons; and that the medicines by which they are acted upon go through the same course before they produce their beneficial effects. An Appendix to a Paper on the Effects of the Colchicum autumnale on Gout. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read April 25, 1816. [Phil. Trans. 1816, p. 262.] In the paper on this subject, lately read to the Society, the author hoped to establish two facts which seemed to him of primary im- portance; first, that this medicine can be received into the circula- tion without permanent mischief; and secondly, that its beneficial effects upon gout are produced through that medium; and hence the sudden relief it gives can, he thinks, be readily explained. The criterion by which he judges of the influence of the medicine is the pulse, which he has found to be invariably diminished ten or twenty beats in about twelve hours after it is taken; and since this effect is also produced when the same medicine is injected into a vein, he was satisfied that in the former instance the lowering of the pulse depends upon its arrival into the circulation, and not upon the state of the stomach. The author has since been induced to try whether the effects of a larger quantity injected into the veins would also correspond with those produced by an overdose taken into the stomach. One hundred and sixty drops of the infusion of colchicum before</page><page sequence="2">43 employed, were now injected into the circulation of a dog. He in- stantly lost all power of motion; the breathing became slow, the pulse hardly to be felt. In ten minutes it was 84 ; in twenty minutes at 60; in an hour at 115, with the respiration so quick as scarcely to be counted. In two hours the pulse was 150, and very weak. In the mean time the animal was purged ; and he vomited, first a bilious fluid, and then bloody mucus; and after lingering in an extremely languid state five hours, expired. On dissection, the internal coat of the stomach and intestines were found inflamed in a, greater or lesser degree universally. The facts here adduced, says the author, go as far as it is possible to prove that the action of Colchicum autumnale on the different parts of the body is through the medium of the circulation, and not in con- sequence of its immediate effects on the stomach. On the Cutting Diamond. By William HydeWollaston, M.D. Sec. R.S. Read May 2, 1816. [Phil. Trans. 1816, p. 265.] The author, having never met with any satisfactory explanation of the property which the diamond possesses of cutting glass, has endeavoured, by experiment, to determine the conditions necessary for this effect, and the mode in which it is produced. The diamonds chosen for this purpose are naturally crystallized, with curved sur- faces, so that the edges are also curvilinear. In order to cut glass, a diamond of this form requires to be so placed that the surface of the glass is a tangent to a curvilinear edge, and equally inclined laterally to the two adjacent surfaces of the diamond. Under these circumstances the parts of the glass to which the diamond is applied are forced asunder, as by an obtuse wedge, to a most minute distance, without being removed; so that a superficial and continuous crack is made from one end of the intended cut to the other. After this, any small force applied to one extremity is sufficient to extend this crack through the whole substance, and successively across the whole breadth of the glass. For since the strain at each instant in the progress of the crack is confined nearly to a mathematical point at the bottom of the fissure, the effort necessary for carrying it through is proportionally small. The author found by trial that the cut caused by the mere passage of the diamond need not penetrate so much as .-,+th of an inch. He found also that other mineral bodies recently ground into the same form are also capable of cutting glass, although they cannot long retain the power, from want of the requisite hardness. An Account of the Discovery of a mass of native Iron in Brasil. By A. F. Mornay, Esq. In a Letter to William Hyde Wollaston, M.D. Sec. R.S. Read May 16, 1816. [Phil. Trans. 1816, p. 270.] This mass was first discovered in the year 1784 by a person of the name of Bernardino da Mota Botelho, while looking after his cattle ;</page></plain_text>