<plain_text><page sequence="1">Morphologic Identification of Popovovifus in o Moluccan Cockatoo (Cacat?a moluccensis) with Neurologic Signs Robert E. Schmidt, DVM, PhD* Gloria J. Goodman, VMD** Robert J. Higgins, BVSc, MS,PhD*** Alan M. Fudge, DVM**** T nfection of psittacine birds by a papova or "papova -*- like" virus has been reported.14 Initial reports of this type of infection were in young budgerigars, and the disease was called budgerigar fledgling disease.1,3 In addi tion to causing skin lesions, the virus can cause systemic infection.3 Inclusion bodies have been seen in the brain in budgerigars.3 In one such outbreak, approximately ten percent of the birds had neurologic signs including tremor of the head, neck, and limbs.6 This report describes the morphologic identification of papovavirus in an adult Moluccan cockatoo with neurologic signs. History and Clinical Signs An adult female Moluccan cockatoo (Cacat?a moluccensis) was presented on 5/29/86 with a history of being ill for approximately one week. The bird had been acquired two months previously, had not yet been allow ed out of her cage, and was on an all seed diet. Another Moluccan cockatoo was caged in another room of the house, and was reported to be clinically normal. i The owners had recently completed major renova tions on their house. The birds had contact with fumes of a potentially toxic paint (DuPont Imron paint ? E.I. Du Pont de Nemurs Co., Wilmington, DE: Toxic only dur ing application). Physical exam revealed an emaciated bird, with ab solutely no pectoral muscle mass. Body weight was 640 grams. The bird was extremely weak and demonstrated inability to maintain itself on the perch and slight tor ticollis. The owners were not supportive of diagnostic procedures, beyond choanal culture and sensitivity. The bird was hospitalized, and symptomatic treat ment was administeredaf including tube feeding. On 5/30/86, body weight had increased to 688 grams, but neurologic signs were becoming more severe. Radiographs were permitted. Many grit-like densities were apparent in the ven triculus and proventriculus, but none were dense enough to suggest the presence of heavy metals. Hepatomegaly was present, but splenic size was nonremarkable. Fluid like densities were visible in both abdominal air sacs, and there was a suggestion of increased mass in the area of the kidneys and gonads. By 5/31/86, the bird was semi-comatose; permission for euthanasia and postmortem were granted on 6/1/86. Gross and Microscopic Lesions At necropsy, both abdominal air sacs, the inter clavicular air sac, and parts of the coelomic cavity were filled with yellow gelatinous material. A Gram's stain and culture on Sabouraud-Dextrose agar of the material did not reveal any bacteria or fungi. The serosal surfaces of all internal organs were covered by a thick fibrinous ex?date. The liver was swollen and slightly mottled. The spleen was non remarkable, but the kidneys were pale and swollen in ap pearance. The proventriculus and ventriculus contained a) vitamins A, D3 and E ? Injacom 100, Roche Chemical Division, Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, NJ 07110. b) calcium glycerophosphate and calcium lactate ? Calphosan, Glenwood, Inc., Tenafly, NJ 07670. c) piperacillin sodium ? Pipracil, Lederle Laboratories, Div. of American Cyanamid Co., Wayne, NJ (100 mg/kg IM b.i.d.) d) 2.5% dextrose in saline ? Abbot Laboratories, North Chicago, IL 60064. e) calcium disodium versenate ? Ca EDTA (edetate calcium disodium injections, USP), Riker Laboratories, Inc., Northridge, CA 91328. f) amikacin sulfate ? Amiglyde-V, Bristol Veterinary Products (10 mg/kg IM b.i.d.). California Avian Laboratory, Citrus Heights, California, and Veterinary Pathology Consultants, West Sacramento, California. Flowers Mill Veterinary Hospital, Langhorne, Pennsylvania. *** Department of Veterinary Pathology, School of Veterinary Medicine, University of California, Davis, California **** California Avian Laboratory, Citrus Heights, California VOL. 1 NO 3 1987 107</page><page sequence="2">Figure 1. Neuron with an enlarged nucleus. Note marginated chromatin and pale amphophilic inclusion body. H&amp;E x 400. Figure 2. Nonenveloped viral particles in cerebellar neuronal nucleus. Particles are round, and tubular viral structures are also present, x 89,000. many small green and black rocks, which resembled aquarium gravel, but the two organs were otherwise grossly normal. The left lung appeared hyperemic and the right lung congested. The brain was grossly nonremark able. An impression smear of liver and spleen submitted for chlamydial cytology was negative. Formalin samples of multiple tissues were also sub mitted. Small intestine, spleen, liver, trachea, and brain were examined histologically. There was moderate mucosal congestion of the small intestine. Focal pro liferation of trach?al mucosa was present, and in more severely affected areas, epithelial cell nuclei were en larged and contained amphophilic inclusion bodies. Moderate splenic hemosiderosis and mild reticular hyperplasia were present. Many reticular cell nuclei were enlarged and contained intranuclear inclusions. Foci of subcapsular fibrosis and bile duct reduplication were pre sent in the liver. A trematode was present in one bile duct. No inflammation was seen in the brain, but scattered throughout the granular layer of the cerebellum were cells with swollen nuclei that contained inclusion bodies (Figure 1). Ultrastructurally, these inclusion bodies in the brain were composed of numerous viral particles that were round, not enveloped, and had a mean outside diameter of 33-38 nm. Tubular structures with an outside diameter of 31-33 nm. were also present (Figure 2). Discussion Papovavirus is a recognized pathogen of various types of psittacine birds,4 with acute illness and death in neonates being a common clinical picture. Adults are thought to be carriers8. Although the virus can affect epithelial cell and reticular macrophages in many organs, hepatic and splenic necrosis are common lesions. Tissue damage is severe and directly correlated with disease or death.8 This cockatoo had a very unusual clinical presenta tion with an extremely rapid progression of neurologic signs. Subsequent to euthanasia, Enterobacter cloacae was isolated on the bacterial culture. Although this organism was resistant to most commonly used anti biotics, including those administered by the clinician, there was no histologie evidence of bacterial infection nor were histologie changes noted relating to exposure to a toxic agent. As strongly suspected, the presence of a virus was definitively diagnosed upon histopathologic and ultrastructural evaluations. The location and size of the inclusion bodies and their morphology (no envelope) ruled out paramyxovirus infection. As adenovirus par ticles are approximately twice the size of these particles seen on electron microscopy, the morphology of the par ticles was determined to be consistent with papovavirus. Although perivascular infiltration and gliosis are usually expected in cases of avian encephalitis, none were present in this case. We have seen other cases of apparent viral infection of the avian brain with no inflammatory changes, but the reason for this is unknown. It could be a characteristic of viral encephalitis in psittacines, or may possibly be due to immune deficiency as has been seen in humans with papovavirus infections7. The source and composition of the gelatinous material noted on gross postmortem were not deter mined. The bird had mild to moderate hepatic trematodiasis which can be fatal5. Perhaps there was enough chronic hepatic dysfunction to cause ascites and, combined with the infection, the fluid protein content may have been high enough to result in formation of the gelatinous material. What role the trematodiasis played, if any, in the pathogenesis of this case is unknown. The role of the papovavirus in this disease process is unclear and the source of infection was not determined. References 1. BERNIER, G., MORIN, M., and MARSOLAIS, G.: A generalized inclusion body disease in the budgerigar (Melopsittacus undulatus) caused by a papovavirus-like agent. Avian Dis 25: 1083-1092, 1981. 2. DYKSTRA, M.J., DYKSTRA, C.C., LUKERT, P.D., and BOZEMAN, L.H.: Investigations of a budgerigar fledgling disease virus. Am J Vet Res 49: 1883-1887, 1984. 3. DYKSTRA, M.J. and BOZEMAN, L.H.: A light and electron microscopic examination of budgerigar fledging disease virus in tissue and in cell culture. Avian Pathol, 11: 11-28, 1982. 4. JACOBSON, E.R., HINES, S.A., QUESENBERRRY K., et al.: Epornitic of papova-like virus-associated disease in a psittacine nursery. JAVMA, 185: 1337-1341, 1984. 5. QUESENBERRY, K., TAPPE, J.P., and GREINER, E.C., et al.: Hepatic trematodiasis in five cockatoos. JAVMA, 189: 1103-1105, 1986. 6. MATHEY, W.J., and CHO, B.R.: Tremors of nestling budgerigars with BFD. Proc 33rd Western Poultry Dis Conf, 1984, p. 102. 7. ZuRHEIN, G.M.: Association of papovavirus with a human demyelinating disease (progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy). In: Melnick, J.L. (ed.): Prog in Med Virol, Karger Basel, 1969, Chapter 11. 8. GERLACH, H.: Viral diseases. In: Harrison, G.J. and Harrison, L.R. (eds.): Clinical Avian Medicine and Surgery. Philadelphia, W.B. Saunders Co., 1986, p. 427. 108 AAV TODAY</page></plain_text>