<plain_text><page sequence="1">3^73 December 8, 1853. COLONEL EDWARD SABINE R.A.. V.P. &amp; Treas., in the Chair. 'Te Chairman stated to the Meetingthat the -President had appointed the following gentlemen Vice-Presidents: - Colonel Edward Sabine Thomas Bell, Esq.; Thomas raham, Esq.; Sir Frederick Pollock, M.A.; the Rev. Baden Powell, M.A.i; Charles Wheatstoine; Esq. A paper was read, entitled "Ons some of the Products of the Decomposition of Nitrotoluylic Acid." By Henry M. Noad, Ph.D., Lecturer on Chemistry at -St. George's Hospital. Communicated by A. Hoffmann, Ph.D.,:F.R.S. Received Nov. 17, 1853. The author refers to a formeer memoir in which he described the mode of preparation and properties of two' new organic acids, the analogues 'of, lenizoic. and nitrobenzoic acids in the toluyl or im- mediately succeeding series, and to which the names of toluylie (C 1 Hi 044) and nitrotoluylic (C1 H7 (NO4) 04) acids were con- sequently given. In the present.paper he resumes the study of the action of nritic acid on cymol (Co20HiJ) and describes first some unsuccessful attempts to procure from that oil the substitution compound C N4 }, f rom which, by the action of reducing agents, he had hoped to procure a new organic base homologous with aniline. toluidine, &amp;c. He then investigates the products of the decomnpoi sition of his new nitrogen acid. He describes the preparation and properties of nitrotoluylamide C 6 04 NH2, and having succeeded, though by a rather tedious process, in obtaining this substance in some quantity, he studies the action of reducing agents on it. By the action of hydrosulphate of ammonia upon an aqueotus solution of the amide, a crystalline substance was procured, which analysis proved to be homologous with the carbamite-carbaniiFde of Hofmann, and wiith the anilo-urea of Chancel. The study of its properties showed that it must be considered' as-the analogue of the latter, that it is the true urea of the toluyl series, being a tWel- defined organic base, forming a series of crystalline salts, of which the nitrate and oxalatei were qualitatively examined. A synoptical view of these ureas is given, showing their relation with the urea type. B:y the action of a boiling solution of caustic potash on toluylurea (C 13 3 (C14 H7) N2 O0), a new acid was procured, the analysis of which showed that it has three homblogues in the benzoyl series viz. anthranilic acid, benzamic acid, and carbanilic acid, all of whichi are represented by the formula C14 1H7 NO4, the compositioi of ithe new acid being expressed by the' frmula (C16 Hg, NO4) The limited quantity of this acid at the authbr's disposal and,the greatdifficul wit which itwasprocured, did not enable him todecide positively with which of the above acids it corresponds, though" itg PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. VOL. VI. No. 101. 27</page><page sequence="2">374 mode of formation would render it probable that it is the true ana- logue of carbanilic acid. The determination of this question is of some interest, inasmuch as should it prove to correspond to anthira- nilic acid, a road might through it be.opened for the introduction of a series of new substances at present entirely wanting, namely, the proper homologues of salicylic acid and its derivatives. The author proposes to return to this subject, and he gives, in conclusion, a syn. optical view of those corresponding members of the benzoyland:tolyl groups which in the present and former paper he has established. December 15, 1853. THOMAS BELL, Esq., V.P. in the Chair. The following communications were read:- 1. Extract of a Letter from Dr. Edward Vogel to Colonel Sabine, dated Mourzuk, Oct. 14, 1853. "You will receive through the Foreign Office a packet of Astro- nomical, Meteorological, and Magnetical Observations, made on the way from Tripoli and since my arrival here. My instruments are almost all in good conditicn, although their cases have split from the effects of heat and dryness, notwithstanding their double, and in some instances triple, leather protection. I saw the great comet for the first time on August 23, but others had seen it three or four days sooner. Its nucleus was very bright, resembling a star of the first magnitude, with a distinctly defined disc of the apparent dia- meter of Jupiter. The tail made an angle of 86? or 87? with the horizon, inclining to the north. It was a single tail with almost precisely parallel sides. Its length was 10? on the 25th of August, 12? on the 26th, and 15? on the 27th and 29th of August. I have seen here repeatedly the apparent fluctuation in the position of stars which is spoken of in the third volume of Cosmos, and have sent the particulars of my observations to Baron von Humboldt. There is no regular rainy season at Mourzuk, but slight; showers occur sometimes in the winter and spring, seldom in the autumn. A heavy rain is considered a great calamity, as it destroys all the hou:es, which are built of mud dried in the sun. It would likewise kill the date trees, by dissolving the salt which is in large quantities in the soil. About twelve years ago, there perished above 10,000 date trees in the neighbourhood of Mourzuk, on account of a rain which continued for seven days. The prevailing winds are south and east, the strongest generally west or north-west. Twice or three times I have seen whirlwinds pass through the town, a phenomenon which was common in the deserts between Benioleed and Mourzuk. All the whirlwinds I observed turned in the direction from east by north and west to south. In December ,and the first half of January the thermometer falls at sunrise (atl Moorzuk) as low as 42?, and in places exposed to the wind water freezes during the night., At Sokna I found no one who could remember having seen snow; but at Ghadamis snow was seen by Mr, F. Warrington on the 15th of</page></plain_text>