<plain_text><page sequence="1">March 7, 1833. JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, Esq. M.A., V.P. and Treasurer, in the Chair. The reading of Mr. Christie's paper was resumed and concluded. Mr. Faraday, in his valuable papers entitled " Experimental Re? searches in Electricity/' has advanced the proposition, that " when metals of different kinds are equally subject, in every circumstance, to magneto-electric induction, they exhibit exactly equal powers with respect to the currents which either are formed or tend to form in them ;" and " that the same is probably the case in all other sub? stances." The author not being satisfied with the conclusiveness of the experiments adduced in support of this proposition,?in order to determine its correctness, subjected different metals directly to the same degree of magneto-electric excitation, in such a manner, that the currents excited in them should be in opposite directions (as was the case in Mr. Faraday's experiment), and also that these opposing currents should have the same facility of transmission ; so that the difference of their intensities, if any existed, might admit of measurement. He then minutely describes the apparatus he con- trived with this view, and which consisted of helices of copper and of iron wire, covered with silk, each making sixty-five turns, but in op? posite directions, and crossing each other alternately, and surround? ing a cylinder of soft iron, which was rendered magnetic by the appli? cation ofthe large magnet belonging to the Royal Society, which the Council had placed at his disposal while engaged in these researches. The result of the experiment showed that the force of the currents from the copper helix considerably exceeded that from the iron helix, and appeared to be even more than double. By a modification of the apparatus, he found that the intensities of the currents in the two wires were very accurately proportional to their conducting powers; and hence the uniformity of the results obtained by Mr. Faraday is easily explicable. The next object of Mr. Christie was to determine the order of the</page><page sequence="2">178 relative intensities and conducting power of several of the metals : but previously to engaging in this inquiry, he made a series of expe? riments, with a view of determining the law of intensities as depend? ing upon the length and diameter ofthe wire through which the cur? rent is transmitted. For this purpose it was necessary to devise means of making and breaking the contact in as invariable a manner as pos? sible. This he accomplished by letting the same weight fall from a constant height when the contact was to be broken, and suddenly re- lieving the cylinder of the tension caused by the same weight when the contact was to be formed. He ascertained that portions of wire connected with the one which formed the circuit, but not included in the circuit itself, had scarcely any influence on the intensity of the current. He then enters into various theoretical investigations as to the mode of deducing the absolute intensities of the currents in this mode of experimenting. By comparing the intensity of the electricity in wires of one metal with that in wires of each of the others, by means of the arrangement described in the beginning of the paper, and taking a mean of the results, he found the relative intensities in the following metals to be, silver 1520, gold 110(i, copper 1000, zinc 522, tin 253, platinum 240, iron 223, and lead 124. The author compared these results with those obtained by Davy, Becquerel, Professor Cumming, and Mr. Harris, and states what he considers may have been the causes ofthe differences. The second object of the author's inquiry relates to the law of va? riation ofthe intensity of the electricity excited in wires of different diameters : for determining which he compares the effects of three different wires of which the diameters were in the proportion of 4, 2, and 1. The results occupy several tables: and the deduction from them, with regard to the law in question, is, that the intensity varies nearly as the square of the diameter : but several causes contribute to interfere with the accuracy of this determination, and to exhibit the power as a mean of 1 *844 instead of 2 ; the principal of which is the action of the coils upon each other. By other methods, in which two wires of different lengths and dia? meters are placed so as to oppose each other in their effects, the ac? curacy of the conclusion that this power is the square, was satisfac- torily established. Hence he arrives at the general conclusion, that the intensity or conducting power varies as the mass or weight di? rectly, and as the square of the length inversely.</page></plain_text>