<plain_text><page sequence="1">400 nient, as well as the branched and taper roots of those sown in a soil superficially rich, admit of a similar explanation. So also when the seeds of the bean were placed to vegetate beneath the mould of an inverted pot, the lower surface of the radicles, being exposed to dry air, were rendered rigid and incapable of emitting fibrous roots; while their upper surface in contact with the mould, being preserved in a due state of moisture, emitted fibres in that direction alone in which proper food was to be procured. In confirmation of this explanation, the author made a correspond- ing experiment, in which water was so constantly and abundantly supplied, that every part of the radicles was kept equally wet, and then they emitted fibres perfectly obedient to gravitation, without being influenced by the soil above them. The strength of roots, by which they appear to be wisely adapted to their situations of exposure to the violence of winds, is traced by the author to the operation of another cause, noticed in a former memoir; for the immediate consequence of motion upon the roots, as well as upon the branches, is a deposition of alburnous matter upon the part moved; and hence those roots which immediately join the trunk of an insulated tree become strong and rigid, but diminish rapidly in bulk as they recede from the stem and descend into the ground. But in a sheltered valley, on the contrary, where a tree is protected by its neighbours, and little agitated by winds, the roots grow long, and continue slender like the stem and branches,, and hence comparatively much less of alburnous matter is expended be- neath the ground. In the whole of this arrangement the author sees much reason to admire the simplicity of the means employed by the wisdom of na- ture, but is unable to trace the existence of anything like sensation or intellect in the plants themselves. On the Solar Eclipse which is said to have been predicted by Thales. By Francis Baily, Esq. Communicated by Humphry Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. Read March 14, 1811. [Phil. Trans. 1811, p. 220.] Notwithstanding there may be few facts in ancient history which have given rise to more discussion, this subject still appears to the author to admit of elucidation; for though chronologists have availed themselves of the aid which astronomy could give them in fixing the exact time when this event occurred, and thereby ascertaining the dates of several other events, yet among the various periods assigned for this eclipse by different authors, we find a difference of no less than 43 years between that assigned by Scaliger, who supposed it to have happened on the 1st of October, 583 B. C.; and that supposed by Volney, in his Chronologie d'Herodote, who fixes it on February 3, 626 B. C. The results to which most confidence has been hitherto attached, is, in fact, very nearly the mean between these extremes, and is that preferred by Bayer, in his Chronologia Scythica, published in the Petersburgh Memoirs for 1728.</page><page sequence="2">401 This result was founded on the computations of his friend Mayer, who, by the assistance of the best astronomnical tables tlzen in use, found that neither the eclipse mentioned by Pliny, Scaliger, Cal- visius, Petavius, or Usher, could possibly be the eclipse alluded to by Herodotus. Mayer calculated all the eclipses from 608 to 556 before Christ, and found that of May 603 to be that which best ac- corded in position and magnitude with that described by Herodotus. In the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1753, Mr. Costard, by computations similar to those of Mayer, arrived at the same con- clusion with respect to this eclipse; but nevertheless, by introducing an allowance for the moon's acceleration, which was not attended to by Mayer, he has assigned a path to the centre of the moon's shadow, which Baily observes does not pass over any part of Asia Minor, and consequently is too much to the southward for the eclipse of Hero- dotus. Since the improvements which have been made of late years in astronomy, have shown the tables employed by Mayer and by Cos- tard to be extremely defective, even in respect to the mean motions of the sun and moon, as well as the lunar equations; and since the secular variations derived from the formule of M. Laplace were wholly unknown at the time when those tables were constructed, and must have an important effect in determining the place of conjunction at so distant a period, the author has been induced to recalculate the elements of several of these eclipses, from the new Tables Astrono- miques, published a few years since by the Bureau des Longitudes in France. These calculations, at full length, together with a map con- taining the paths of the moon's shadow in these eclipses, accompany this paper, for the satisfaction of those who may be interested to enter more minutely into the subject. The eclipses here calculated are, first, that of Pliny in May, 585 B. C.; next that of Calvisius, 607 B. C., each of which, as well as that of Bayer, passed too much to the south for the eclipse men- tioned by Herodotus; while that of Petavius, in July, 597, and that of Usher, September, 601 B. C., passed much too far to the north to have been seen in Asia Minor. With respect to the eclipse of the year 626, suggested by Volney, it was not total, but only annular, and moreover was not visible but to countries far eastward of Asia Minor. Mr. Baily's inquiries have consequently taken a greater range than those of his predecessors. He has taken the pains to calculate all the solar eclipses from 650 before Christ to 580, and has found only one that was central and total in or near any part of the peninsula of Asia Minor. This eclipse took place on the 30th of September, 610. The centre of the moon's shadow, in this instance, passed in the forenoon of that day, in a straight line, over the north-eastern part of Asia Minor, through Armenia into Persia, where the sun was centrally eclipsed on the meridian. The path of the moon's shadow is estimated by the author to have passed over the very mouth of the river Halys, 2 D</page><page sequence="3">402 and to have crossed the very ground where the armies of Cyaxares and Alyattes probably met. And if the order of events belonging to the reign of Cyaxares, as related by Herodotus, does not accord so exactly as might be wished with this determination, and cannot be entirely reconciled to their dates, Mr. Baily would attribute the confusion to the want of authentic documents at the time the history was written. Although the author has employed in these calculations the secular variations of the moon's mean longitude, mean anomaly, and mean distance from her node, as deduced from the formulwe of Laplace, and given in the Tables Astronorniques, he expresses some doubts of the accuracy of these results; and his doubts are founded upon an eclipse recorded by Diodorus to have happened during the voyage of Aga- thocles from Syracuse to invade Africa, in the year 310 B. C., in which, when computed according to the present tables, the path of the moon's shadow appears to have passed so much more south than Agathocles can be supposed to have been at that time, that the la- titude of the moon would require to be at least 30 greater than our present tables make it. These observations (if correct) would show the necessity of some alteration of the secular variation of the moon's mean distance from her node; but this hypothesis, Mr. Baily observes, could not be re- conciled with the eclipse mentioned by Herodotus; for by means of a corresponding correction, the eclipse of 610 would be found not to be total to any part of Asia Minior; and there is no other that could possibly be central and total within the utmost limits that are reconcileable with any received systems of chronology. An Account of the great Derbyshire Denudation. By Mr. J. Farey, Sen. In a Letter to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read March 21, 1811. [Phil. Trans. 1811, p. 242.] It is now well known, says Mr. Farey, to many observers in geo- logy, that the clay strata on which the metropolis is situated, extend north-eastward through Essex, Suffolk, and Norfolk, and are incum- bent on the great chalk stratum, which reaches from the Isle of Wight to Flamboro'-head; and that these, as well as many subjacent strata that are known, dip in general to the south-east, and basset out, or appear at the surface in succession, to any one travelling to- ward the N.W., until he has passed certain strata of lias, clay, and sand. Beneath these, says the author, are found marks of an im- mense stratum of red marl, which seems (to him) to have extended over all the remainder of the British islands. In this stratum are contained local strata of gypsum, rock salt, sand, micaceous grit- stone, &amp;c.: to this stratum also, according to the author, belong the great nodules of slate, green stone, sienite, basalt, &amp;c. that form hills or mountains, intersected by mineral veins, in the western parts of the kingdom. In many parts, however, the red marl itself is no longer found; but instead of it various strata, subjacent to it, have</page></plain_text>