<plain_text><page sequence="1">175 Some Experiments on the Changes which take place in the fixed Prin- ciples of the Egg during Incubation. By William Prout, M.D. F.R.S. Read June 20, 1822. [Phil. Trans. 1822, p. 377.] In the researches detailed in this paper, the author's attention was chiefly directed to the nature, proportions, and changes of the earthy and saline substances contained in the egg, and to the source of the matter constituting the skeleton of the chick. He therefore analysed the egg first in its recent state, and then at the end of the first, se- cond, and third weeks of incubation, his experiments being princi- pally confined to the eggs of the domestic fowl. After some preliminary details relating to the variations in weight which eggs suffer when kept, and which show that for a considerable period they sustain a daily loss of about nine grains, and that the relative weights of the shell, albumen, and yolk, are liable to con- siderable variation, Dr. Prout proceeds to describe the manner in which he conducted his analysis, especially in relation to the saline principles of the yolk. This substance is remarkably difficult of in- cineration, in consequence of the phosphorus which it contains burn- ing into phosphoric acid, which forms a coating that protects the coal from the action of the air. The general results of these experi- ments are thrown into the form of tables. They show that the rela- tive weights of the constituent principles of different eggs vary con- siderably, and that during incubation the loss of weight exceeds by about eiglit times that which the egg sustains by ordinary keeping. That in the earlier stages of incubation an interchange of principle takes l)lace between the yolk and a portion of the albumen, which passes into a substance in some respects analogous to curd of milk. That as incubation proceeds, the phosphorus of the yolk becomes phosphoric acid, which, united with lime, is found in the bones of the chicken; which lime, Dr. Prout thinks, makes its appearance in some unaccountable manner, and from some unknown source, and that it does not pre-exist in any known state in the recent egg. Its only possible source, observes Dr. Prout, is the shell; but we are pre- cluded ascertaining the exact quantity of lime in any particular shell before and after incubation, and the application of averages cannot be resorted to, in consequence of the great difference of weight in the shells of different eggs. The author's reasons for doubting that origin, or source of the lime, are, that the membrane in contact with the shell is never vascular, and that both the albumen and the yolk contain at the end of incubation a considerable quantity of earthy matter, which one would suppose would have been appropriated to the bone in preference to that derived from a more remote source. Dr. Prout observes, that the circumstance of the shell becoming very brittle towards the end of incubation, may by some be ascribed to the absorption of a portion of its substance; but this he is inclined rather to refer to the heat requisite to the process of incubation, which he thinks is sufficient to account for all the known changes which the shell suffers. He is of opinion that great doubt hangs over</page><page sequence="2">176 the source of the lime, though he by no means intends to assert the impossibility of its being derived from the shell. On the Placenta. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 27, 1822. [Phil. Trans. 1822, p. 401.] After adverting to the discovery of the unattached human ovum in the uterus, and to the formation of the placenta independent of the chorion, the author proceeds to show that the office of the pla- centa, and when that is wanting, of the chorion, being to supply ma- terials for the growth of the embryo, it varies in structure, and has a peculiar form. in every genus of animal, and is to be considered as the means employed by Nature to prevent the whole system respect- ing animals from being thrown into confusion by any two different genera continuing to interbreed with one another, and which cannot take place without a new form of placenta is employed, for which there is no provision. The author then states that the period of utero-gestation depends upon the structure of the placenta or cho- rion; that where they are very vascular it will be short, and where the reverse very long; and that where the female of one species breeds from the male of another, whose utero-gestation is different, the hybrid is brought forth at the end of the longest period of the utero-gestation of the species concerned. Sir Everard thinks that the placenta and chorion are instrumental in producing the stimulus, in consequence of which parturition comes on; for as soon as double circulation takes place in the foetus, which is not till the lungs are perfected, the placenta is so much diminished, that this alone may produce a separation of the placenta and chorion, and expulsion of the young. The author concludes this paper with a specimen of a new classification of animals, founded upon the variation of struc- ture of the placenta, of which the first class only is given, including animals in which the ovum becomes attached to the womb of the mother. This class comprises seven orders, distinguished by pecu- liarities in the structure of the chorion and placenta. Of the Geographical Situation of the Three Presidencies, Calcutta, Madras, and Bombay, in the East Indies. By J. Goldingham, Esq. F.R.S. Read June 27, 1822. [Phil. Trans. 1822, p. 408.] From an extended series of observations of the eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, corrected for the difference of the tables from the obser- vations taken at Greenwich, at or about the time of each eclipse, the mean longitude of the Observatory at Madras is 80? 17' 21" E., and the mean latitude found by meridional observations of the sun and stars north and south of zenitll, taken with the sextant, circular instrument, and zenith sector, is 13? 4' 91" N. By a series of corresponding eclipses of Jupiter's satellites, taken at Fort William, the longitude of the Fort appears to be 880 23' 39" E.</page></plain_text>