<plain_text><page sequence="1">from A.A.V. foreign members IME 227 . . SALMONELLA TYPHIMURIUM INFECTION IN BUDGERIGARS Ten budgerigars were donated to the Western College of Veterin ary Medicine, Saskatoon, to start a breeding colony for teaching purposes. In transit, birds were left in a small box at an air port for two days with food but without water. Two of the birds died on the third and fourth day after being received from the airport and housed in an aviary. Postmortem findings included focal necrosis in liver and intestine and evidence of bacterial septicemia. Salmonella typhimurium was isolated from liver, intestine and lung. Rather than destroy the remaining birds, a decision was made to attempt to eradicate the infection and interested veterinary students accepted the challenge as a class project. The remaining eight budgerigars were split into four breeding pairs and each pair housed in a single cage. The cages were all kept in a single isolated room. Students wore clean protective clothing, gloves and boots when working with these birds. Hands were washed thoroughly after handling the birds. Boots and surfaces around the cages were washed with disinfectant daily. Fecal swabs were taken from each cage one, two and three weeks after the birds had been isolated. At four weeks, the birds were placed in a cool room at 4?C for 3 hours as a stress. Birds had ruffled feathers and slightly loose droppings after this cold exposure. Fecal swabs were again collected. All swabs were cultured in both T.S.I broth and Selenite. No Salmonella species were isolated.</page><page sequence="2">-44 The birds after this time were housed in an aviary and a successful breeding program initiated. In the first year of the breeding program, two of the original eight birds died, some nestlings were lost due to cannabilism and four young birds were killed for collection of tissues. All these birds were cultured for Salmonella species and results were negative. This limited study suggested that, in budgerigars infected with Salmonella species, the carrier status may not be too pro longed and eradication may be possible in an aviary. It should be noted that no treatment was given as treatment has been shown to prolong the carrier status in chickens. ? Craig Riddell, D.V.M. (Canada) IME 228 . . A male Toco toucan, age approximately 9 months, broke off roughly \ inch of his beak and slightly more than \ inch off the palate by wedging his beak between the bars of his cage. The bird could not eat even if hand fed due to the fact that as soon as food was placed in the mouth, he would immediately throw it up to the front end where it would fall out. At first a temporary replacement was made from cardboard filled with cotton and fitted on the bird with tape. This type of replacement lasted 3-4 days, and once the swelling had subsided, a replacement was needed that would last longer. A veterinary fibreglass hoove repair mixture was used, called Technovet^. Technovet was mixed with water at approximately 1.5: 1 ratio to achieve a consistency of "silly putty" which could then be molded easily and which dries rapidly - in under 5 minutes. After putting it on and letting it dry for a couple of minutes, the rough edges were smoothed. This type of replacement lasted approximately 2 months and was replaced due to the growth of the beak. ? Thomas Ryan (Italy) IME 229 . . TREATMENT OF MITE INFESTATION A colleague and I have had excellent results.with Bayticol 5% (Bayer) used in a 1: 1000 solution. This is a synthetic pyrethrum cattle dip. Birds are immersed in a warm solution for 1 minute up to the head and then the head is soaked using cottonwool. Birds from budgies to macaws have been treated with no ill effects, but select a warm day. The improvement in plummage has been so encouraging that all birds with plummage problems or puritis are dipped 3 times at 10 day intervals even if no positive diagnosis of mite infestation has been made. ? Alan Abrey, B. V.' Sc. (South Africa) IME 230 . Very severe tapeworm infestations were encountered in a large consignment of imported cockatoos. The birds were dosed directly into the crop with Lintex-L suspension (Bayer) - Niclosa mide - at the rate of 100 mg/kg. Deaths declined dramatically and no tapeworms were found on any subsequent post mortems. It is interesting to speculate as to what the intermediate hosts were ? could it be grain weevils? ? Alan Abrey, B.V.Sc.</page><page sequence="3">-45 THE FOLLOWING ARE TAKEN FROM THE O.A.A.V. NEWSLETTER AND USED WITH PERMISSION OF THE ONTARIO ASSOCIATION OF AVIAN VETERINARIANS IME 231 . . Hibitane Cream (chlorhexidine hydrochloride - Ayerst, McKenna &amp; Harrison) - We use this water soluble anti biotic- antifungal cream for topical application in birds because it is virtually greaseless. It is also very useful for infusing the external nares of congested psittacines with upper respiratory tract infections. After the nostrils have been cleaned with a small curette or a fine dental pick/ we infuse enough of the cream to fill the sinus and exit the choanae. In several cases it is probably advisable to do one nostril per day. Keep the bill open with a speculum and wipe excess cream from the choanal slit as it appears. Failure to do this may cause discomfort and dyspnea as the cream covers the epiglottal area. Hibitane liquifies at body temperature and helps loosen the inspissated debris in the sinuses. It also encourages the sneezing out of loosened debris. Upper respiratory tract infections in the psittacine are common and they can become chronic due to the persistance of a nidus of infection in the sinus. Inspissated debris in the sinus has been implicated in an "antigen overload" situation that may defeat the local immune response. Removal of the debris is necessary for complete recovery. ? Dr. Dean Axelson Dr. Mike Taylor IME 232 . . For restraint of birds during radiology, I have covered a piece of thin plywood with a velveteen cloth which is placed on top of the cassette. The bird is firmly and gently fixed to this cloth-covered board with strips of VELCRO across the wing tips, legs, beak or neck, etc. This method does little or no feather damage and is much easier to use than tape. ? Tony Braithwaite, D.V.M. IME 233 . . Hospitalized birds which are losing weight can be supported by supplementary tube feeding into the crop. Soyalac (Loma Linda brand), a human infant formula, available at pharmacies as a liquid or a powder which can be reconstituted is used for small birds up to 100 g. size. Larger birds are fed a mixture of soaked Zupreem monkey biscuits and Hills I/D mixed in a blender with enough water to allow it to pass through a syringe nozzle. Curved metal tubes in various sizes have been used successfully. Once tubes are placed in the crop their tips should be palpated through the skin and crop wall to insure that they are in fact in the crop, rather than the respiratory system. The syringe plunger is depressed slowly while the bird is observed for any sign of regurgitation. If regurgitation begins, the tube is withdrawn immediately and the bird inverted to facilitate regurgitation. ? Dr. Sue Thoma s IME 234 . . Seleen shampoo has been reported to kill budgies after a single application. ? Dr. Sue Thomas</page></plain_text>