<plain_text><page sequence="1">263' where there is a large venous plexus, corresponding to the site of the tadpole's gills, and seeming to indicate that the subcutaneous distri- bution of the second branch of the pulmonary artery may further aid the office of the lungs by bringing the blood to the surface to be acted on by the air. The author concludes this paper by stating, that he has endeavoured to trace a direct communication by spiracula through the integuments, but has only obtained negative results, never having succeeded in forcing the smallest bubble of air through the skin. On the magnetizing Power of the more refrangible Solar Rays. By Mrs. M. Somerville. Communicated byW. Somerville, M.D. F.R.S. February 2, 1826. Read February 2, 1826. [Phil. Trans. 1826, Part II. p. 132.] In the year 1813, Professor Morichini, of Rome, announced that steel exposed in a particular manner to the concentrated violet rays of the prismatic spectrum becomes magnetic. His experiments, how- ever, having uniformly failed in other hands, had ceased to excite gene- ral attention; especially in this country, whose climate is usually so unfavourable for such researches. The unusual clearness of weather last summer, however, induced Mrs. Somerville to make the attempt. H1-aving, at that time, no information of the manner in which Prof. Morichini's experiments were conducted, it occurred to her, however, as unlikely that if the whole of a needle were equally exposed to the violet rays, the same influence should at the same time produce a south pole at one end, and a north at the other of it. She therefore covered half of a slender sewing needle, an inch long, with paper, and fixed it in such a manner as to expose the uncovered part to the vio- let rays of a spectrum, thrown by an equiangular prism of flint glass on a panel at five feet distance. As the place of the spectrum shifted, the needle was moved so as to keep the exposed part constantly in the violet ray. The sun being bright, in less than two hours the needle, which before the experiment showed no signs of polarity, had become magnetic; the exposed end attracting the south pole of a suspended magnetic needle, and repelling the north. No iron was near to disturb the experiment, which was repeated the same day, under similar circumstances, with a view to detect any source of fal- lacy in the first attempt, but with the same result. The season continuing favourable, afforded daily opportunities of repeating and varying the experiment. Needles of various sizes (all carefully ascertained to be free from polarity), and exposed in va- rious positions with regard to the magnetic dip and meridian, almost all became magnetic; some in a longer, some in a shorter time, va- rying from half an hour to four hours, but depending on circum- stances not apparent. The position of the needles seems to have had no influence, but the experiments were generally more success- ful from 10 to 12 or 1 o'clock than later in the day. The exposed portion of the needle became (vwith a few exceptions) a north pole;</page><page sequence="2">2641 exceptions possibly attributable to some predisposition in the needle itself to magnetism too slight to be observed. The distance of the needle from the prism was varied without materially varying the effect. It was found unnecessary to darken the room, provided the spectrum was thrown out of the direct solar rays. The next object was to ascertain whether the other prismatic colours had the same property as the violet. Needles (previously ascertained to be unmagnetic) exposed to the blue and green rays sometimes acquired magnetism, though less frequently, and requiring longer exposure; but the magnetism when communicated seemed equally strong as in the case of the violet rays. The indigo suc- ceeded nearly as well as the violet. In all cases, the exposed end usually became a north pole. But in no one instance was magnetism produced by the yellow, orange, or red rays, though in some cases the same needles were exposed to their influence for three successive days, neither did the calorific rays produce any effect. Pieces of clock- and watch-spring were next tried with similar success, and they were even found more susceptible of the peculiar magnetic influence than needles; possibly from their greater pro- portional surfaces, or their blue colour. The violet rays concen- trated by a lens produced magnetism in a shorter time than the prism alone. Experiments were next instituted by transmission of the solar rays through coloured media. Three needles, half covered with paper as before, were exposed on a stone outside a window, under a blue glass coloured by cobalt, to a hot sun for three or four hours. They were rendered feebly magnetic, and when examined next day were found to have lost their magnetism; a circumstance found occasionally to take place afterwards, as the season advanced and the force of the sun diminished. No iron was near, nor did the stone show any signs of influence on a suspended magnetic needle. The experiment was repeated next day, leaving two needles six hours exposed, when the magnetism communicated was found to be very sensible, and is still retained by them at the distance of six months. Pieces of clock-spring which had been heated to deprive them of magnetism also became magnetic when so exposed. The rays trans- mitted through the glass employed in this experiment, blackened mu- riate of silver as powerfully as those transmitted through uncoloured glass, proving its free permeability to the chemical rays. Green glass was next tried, and the rays which penetrated it were found to communicate magnetism. Neutral pieces of watch-spring were then half exposed (when wrapped in violet and green ribands, and fastened inside of the frame of a window,) to the sun's rays all day. In the evening both had become magnetic, and the parts which received the rays trans- mitted through the ribands became north poles. Similar pieces were then freely exposed (half covered as all along with paper) to the white light of the sun, with neither prism glass nor riband; anad though the heat was greater than before, no mag"</page><page sequence="3">265 netism was produced. The same result was afterwards obtained in comparative trials; the steel was found to be no way affected by white light. As the season advanced and the sun's force diminished, these ef- fects became more feeble, and further experiments were in conse- quence deferred till the return of summer; but from the experiments here detailed, the authoress thinks herself entitled to regard a mag- netic influence in the more refrangible solar rays as demonstrated. On the mutual Action of Sulphuric Acid and Naphthaline, and on a new Acid produced. By M. Faraday, F.R.S. Corresponding Mem- ber of the Royal Academy of Sciences, &amp;8c. c8c. Communicated Ja- nuary 12, 1826. Read February 16, 1826. [Phil. Trans. 1826, Part II. p. 140.] In this communication M/fr. Faraday shows that when sulphuric acid and naphthaline act upon each other, a peculiar compound pos- sessed of distinct acid characters is the result. This acid is most readily obtained by heating two parts of naphthaline with one of sulphuric acid. The mixture concretes on cooling, and separates into two parts, the uppermost of which is little else than naphthaline, but the lower, heavier part contains the peculiar acid, which, being soluble in water, is easily separated by that fluid, not, however, pure, but still containing mixed sulphuric acid. The author, however, ob- tained the pure acid by decomposing its compound with baryta, which is soluble, by sulphuric acid. It then had a bitter sour taste, and formed a distinct class of salts with the different bases, all of which are soluble in water and in alcohol, and combustible. By careful evaporation of the aqueous solution of this acid, a white crystalline deliquescent solution was obtained, evolving water when heated, and at high temperatures affording sulphurous acid, char- coal, and naphthaline. To determine the ultimate component parts of this acid, its compound with baryta was subjected to rigid analysis; the results of which were 78 baryta ................. .... = 1 proportional. 80 sulphuric acid ...........* = 2 proportionals. 120 carbon.............. 20 8 hydrogen...... ........ = 8 This acid, therefore, only possesses half the saturating power of sulphuric acid, and it would accordingly appear that the hydro- carbon acts the part of a neutralizer of one of the proportionals of sulphuric acid. This property of hydro-carbon, the author observes, was pointed out to him by Mr. Hennell, as manifested in the for- mation of sulpho-vinous acid, before he had established it in regard to the above peculiar combination. Mr. Faraday proposes to call the acid, of which he has described the sources, nature, and properties, Sulpho-naphthalic Acid.</page></plain_text>