<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 16: 43-47 (1992) © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest The effect of species dominance on information theory characteristics of plant communities B. Tóthmérész &amp; Zs. Erdei Ecological Institute of Kossuth L. University, Debrecen, P. O. Box 14, H-4010, Hungary Keywords: Characteristic areas, Complete spatial randomness, Computerized sampling, Dominance structure of communities, Juhász-Nagy's information theory models, Multispecies point patterns, Spatial processes. Abstract: The effect of the dominance level of species or species groups on the information theory functions proposed by Juhász-Nagy was studied through spatial processes. TTie dominance structure of the communities was changed during simulations of completely random plant patterns. We have demonstrated that the number of peaks of information theory functions depends on the dominance structure of the community and as many peaks occur as the number of dominance groups of species. Differences between the mean density of dominance groups must increase following an exponential function in order to produce distinct peaks. Therefore, the occurrence of more than three peaks is very unlikely in a real field situation. Rare species might frequently produce a narrow and pointed second or third peak probably not detectable by methods using grid cells rather than point maps of individuals. The elimination of rare species does not change the location of the peak produced by the dominant and subdominant species. We also demonstrated that associatum is extremely sensitive to the effect of rare species, suggesting elimination of rare species from the data in association analysis. Introduction From the 60's onwards, Juhász-Nagy developed a new family of models describing community-wide plant patterns based on information theory. Ju- hász-Nagy (1976, 1984), Juhász- Nagy &amp; Podani (1983) and Bartha (1990) present a detailed de- scription of the methods. The main practical problem is that the models require a relatively large sample size. Sampling is carried out with in- creasing plot size; sample size for each plot size should be as high as 100-500 plots or more, depending on the number of species in the com- munity (sometimes this special sampling system is mentioned as a spatial process; Podani 1984, Juhász-Nagy &amp; Podani 1983). Field work is very time-consuming and tedious, but computerized sampling (Podani 1987) or a special simulation technique (Bartha &amp; Horváth 1987) may be solu- tions. Camiz &amp; Gergely (1990) suggested to use multivariate techniques to reduce sample size considerably. Aims and Methods Detecting plot sizes with maximum values of in- formation theory functions has a central role in Juhász-Nagy's models. These plot sizes are men- tioned as maximum areas. In this study we started from the assumption that there is no reason to eliminate rare species from the samples because they must have a great influence on the curve of information theory functions and especially on the location of maxima. Many published studies eliminate rare species from the samples and the analysis is carried out on a data set which is limited in species number. We were especially interested in the effect of rare species on the shape of curves of information theory functions and on the location of maxima. Three artificial 12-species communities were simulated. The dominance diversity curves of the communities are shown in Figure 1. It is evident that there are three different stages of the curves:</page><page sequence="2">Figure 1. Dominance-diversity curves of the studied ar- tificial communities. The species number of each com- munity is 12. Figure 2. Variance of the species number per plots of the first artificial community in a spatial process (for the whole community, for dominant, subdominant, domi- nant+subdominant, and for rare species). The first peak is due to the dominant +subdominant, the second one to the rare species. The curve due to the dominant +sub- dominant species is approximately the sum of the curves resulted for the dominant and the subdominant species. Figure 3. Florula diversity for the first artificial com- munity, for dominant, subdominant, dominant +sub- dominant, and rare species. The curve due to the dominant+subdominant species is approximately the sum of the curves resulted for the dominant and the sub- dominant species. 44 Ttíthmérész &amp; Erdei: Dominance and characteristic areas the first three species are strongly dominant; spe- cies 4-7 are subdominant, and species 8-12 are rare. The multispecies point pattern was generated by the Sim-Pat program package (Erdei &amp; Tóthmérész 1992) in a two-dimensional coor- dinate system. There was no interaction among the individuals and the intensity of individuals did not change over the plane (complete spatial ran- domness, Diggle 1983). The square plots were also taken randomly by computer using uniformly distributed random numbers. The size of the sampled artificial community, where the individuals are located, was 200 by 200 units. During the sampling procedure the smallest plot size was 1 by 1 unit and the largest was 198 by 198 units. For each plot size 1500 sample plots were taken. We considered three information theory functions (florula diversity, local distinctiveness and as- sociatimi) and the variance of species number in the sampling plots. The area where florula diver- sity takes its maximum is frequently mentioned as the maximum area of florula diversity. This size minimizes the chance that two relevés have the same species composition. The area where local distinctiveness takes its maximum is named com- pensatory area. It corresponds to the plot size where the species are most distinctive among plots. The maximum of associatum gives the area at which the highest interspecific associations exist. Results und Discussion The variance of species number in the sampling plots is illustrated in Figure 2 in the function of plot size. There are two definite peaks of the curve. The first is at plot size of 6 by 6 units and the second at 60 by 60 units. The information theory functions also have two well-separated peaks. For example, the first peak of florula diver- sity is at 7 by 7 units, and the second one at 55 by 55 units (Figure 3).</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 16 (1992) 45 We suppose that the second peak was caused by the rare or subdominant species. To clarify the situation we eliminated the rare species. Then, we calculated the variance of the species number and some of the information theory functions for the dominant+subdominant species and then separ- ately for the rare species (Figures 2 - 3). It is well- demonstrated that the second peak is due to the the rare species and the first one is caused by the dominant+subdominant species. The separate effect of dominant and subdominant species was also examined. The results suggest that the first peak is due to the dominant+sub- dominant species as a manifestation of a sum- marized effect. Neither peaks of the curve are sharp; that is why only a single peak occurs for the curve of the total community (Figures 2 - 3). The peak is more plateau-like than when only one dominance group of species produces the peak, as in the case of rare species. Sometimes, when the dominance is stronger; i.e. when the difference between dominant and subdominant species is higher than in the first case discussed, it is pos- sible that the first peak splits into two (Figures 4 - 5). The variance of the species number of plots reflects better these two subpeaks than florula diversity. The curve of florula diversity, however, is smoother than the curve of variance; for variance unwarranted oscillation may occur. We think that the above explanation is valid for the data set of Juhász-Nagy as well; the florula :versity of the Alopecurus pratensis community in Figure 4. Variance of the species number per plots for the second simulated community in a spatial process. The dominant+subdominant species produce a peak with two subpeaks. Figure 5. Florula diversity for the second simulated com- munity. The peak produced by the dominant+sub- dominant species is segregated into two subpeaks by a shallow 'trough'. Figure 1 of Juhász-Nagy &amp; Podani (1983) typically represents the above-mentioned case. They found that the florula diversity of the community has two peaks. In the same paper, studying a Brometum tectori plant community, they also men- tioned (p. 137) that florula diversity and as- sociatum usually have two maxima, sometimes three. They concluded that in these cases the results are rather difficult to interpret. Podani (1984) studied a perennial sand-steppe community on the basis of a point-map which in- cludes the most abundant six species. Associatum for the total random alternatives of the map also produced a bimodal plot. However, he stated: 'Although both curves have double peaks, this is not sufficient evidence for bimodality.' The number of peaks of information theory func- tions depends on the dominance structure of the community; it is possible to produce three or even more peaks (Figure 6). In the case of this data set the dominance of the three most abundant species is very high. The mean density of dominant species is 3797 per study area. The density of sub- dominant species is 239, and 7 for the rare species. The difference between the means for rare and subdominant species is 232 while the dif- ference between the subdominant and dominant species is 3258. Thus, it is evident that the in- crease of differences between the mean density of dominance groups is not linear. The first studied data set with means of 1001, 286 and 7 produces only two peaks; one for the rare species and one</page><page sequence="4">46 Tóthmćrćsz &amp; Erdei: Dominance and characteristic areas Figure 6. Florula diversity of the third artificial com- munity. The three peaks are due to the dominant, sub- dominant and rare species. for the dominant+subdominant species. The dif- ference between the means is likely to increase ac- cording to a power function. This fact explains the absence of three or more well-separated peaks. Most likely is the presence of two subpeaks separated by a shallow trough. The occurrence of this case in field studies was demonstrated by Juhász-Nagy &amp; Podani (1983) and Podani (1984). It is also likely that the occurrence of a very sharp and narrow peak is caused by the rare species. The lack of this peak in the published papers might be explained by the elimination of rare species before the calculations. The special simulation technique based on grid cells often applied to es- timate information theory characteristics might also diminish or eliminate the effect of rare species and especially the effect of extremely rare species. Our result, however, suggests that the common practice of eliminating the rare species before calculating information theory functions is correct in many respects because the elimination of these species does not change the location of the peak(s) produced by the dominant and sub- dominant species. It should be emphasized however, that the results are entirely valid for the dominant and subdominant species, i.e. for the majority of community constituents but not for the whole community. In some situations the changes of the rare species may be very important. Associatum is expected to be zero for a complete- ly random community. However, it differs from zero for the whole community (Figure 7). It is evi- dent that rare species contribute much to this. The dominant and subdominant species produce a zero or nearly zero association. The reason of the relatively high associatum for the rare species is caused by the low density of these species. Figure 7. Associatum of the first simulated community. Point pattern is completely random, so that associatum should be zero. The rather high associatum of the whole community is produced by the rare species. It is also worth to note that associatum reacts as a multiplicative quantity, whereas florula diversity is an additive quantity. The associatum of both dominant and subdominant species is close to zero. The associatum of rare species is also close to zero for small and medium plot sizes. Contrary to these facts the associatum of the total com- munity is rather high even for small and medium plot sizes. It suggests that this is a multiplicative quantity and surely not additive. Podani (1984) and Szollát &amp; Bartha (1991) also demonstrated that associatum is not zero for randomly generated communities. In both cases rare species were eliminated. Podani's simulation was based on 6 species, the other study based on the 20 most frequent species. In the first case the associatum has approximately the same magnitude as in our case for the dominant species, whereas in the second case the associatum looks higher. It may be caused by the simulation technique which was based on 5 by 5 cm2 grid cells. As an alternative cause the inherent features of community struc- ture might be mentioned. Summary We have studied three simulated multispecies point patterns by the methods developed by</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 16 (1992) 47 Juhász-Nagy. The dominance structure of the communities was different in each case and the point pattern was simulated randomly; i.e. the in- tensity of points (individuals) did not vary over the plane and there were no interactions among the individuals. 1) The number of peaks of information theory functions depends on the dominance structure of the community. There are as many peaks of the functions as the number of well-separated dominance groups of species. 2) The scaling of differences between the groups is non-linear; it may be described by a power func- tion. Thus, in a real field situation more than three peaks are unlikely to occur. A typical case is the occurrence of one peak or one 'quasi-peak', which is, in fact, two peaks separated by a 'shallow trough'. 3) The rare species might frequently produce a well-separated, narrow and sharp second or third peak. It is probable that this peak is unrecog- nizable by the methods based on small grid cells instead of a point-map. 4) We have demonstrated that the elimination of rare species does not change the location of the peak produced by the dominant+subdominant species. This scale point is thus independent from the other point on the spatial scale. 5) Our results suggest that it may be very useful to calculate the information theory functions not only for the entire community but for the dominant, subdominant and rare species. 6) The variance of the species number per plots reflects more sensitively the peaks corresponding to the differently dominant groups of species than the information theory functions. The variance curve is not as smooth as the information theory characteristic curves, however. 7) In random communities positive associatum is due to the rare species; associatum is in fact zero for the dominant and subdominant species. This result shows that sometimes it is useful to eliminate the rare species because they may cause significantly biased values. The analysis of as- sociatum may serve as a typical example. Of course, in many cases the study of rare species is vital; our result does not contradict this. Com- parison of results obtained with and without rare species may give more information on multi- species pattern than when all species are con- sidered. Acknowledgements: The authors are indebted to J. Podani for many suggestions that have improved the manuscript. This research was partially supported by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (OTKA 1/3). References Bartha S. &amp; Horváth F. 1987. Long transects and information theoretical functions to pattern detection I. TVansects ver- sus isodiametric sampling units. Abstracta Botanica 11:9- 26. Bartha S. 1990. Spatial processes in developing plant com- munities: pattern formation detected using information theory. In: Krahulec, F., Agnew, A.D.Q., Agnew, S. &amp; Wil- lems, J. (eds): Spatial Processes in Plant Communities, Academia, Praha, Czechoslovakia, pp. 31-47. Camiz, S. &amp; Gergely, A 1990. An exploratory method for determining optimal plot size in plant communities. Abstracta Botanica 14:83-108. Diggle, P. J. 1983. Statistical Analysis of Spatial Point Patterns. Academic Press, New York. Erdei Zs. &amp; Tôthmérész B. 1992. Sim-Pat: A program package to simulare community-wide patterns. Abstracta Botanica (to appear). Juhász-Nagy, P. 1976. Spatial dependence of plant populations. Part 1. Equivalence analysis (An outline of a new model). Acta Botanica Hungarica 22:61-78. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1984. Spatial dependence of plant populations. Part 2.' A family of new models. Acta Botanica Hungarica 30:363-402. Juhász-Nagy, P. &amp; Podani J. 1983. Information theory methods for the study of spatial processes and succession. Vegetatio 51: 129-140. Matus G. &amp; Tôthmérész, B. 1990. The effect of grazing on the structure of a sandy grassland. In: Krahulec, F., Agnew, AD.Q., Agnew, S. &amp; Willems, J.H. (eds): Spatial Processes in Plant Communities. Academia, Praha. Podani J. 1984. Analysis of mapped and simulated vegetation pattern by means of computerized sampling techniques. Acta Botanica Hungarica 30:403-425. Szollát, Gy. &amp; Bartha S. 1991. Pattern analysis of dolomite grassland communities using information theory models. Abstracta Botanica 15:47-60. Received February 15, 1992; Revised March 10, 1992. Appendix The number of individuals of the species of simulated communities were as follows: First case: 1 188 962 853 427 384 247 84 10 9 7 6 4. Second case: 2450 2320 2190 275 251 230 217 10 9 7 6 4. Third case: 3988 3794 3610 327 270 192 165 10 9 7 6 4. Species number was 12 in each case.</page></plain_text>