<plain_text><page sequence="1">Aviculture Medicine' Use of EM Services for Monitoring C. psittaci in an Aviary From my viewpoint, using electronmicroscopic (EM) services for the detection of C. psittaci in my aviary has produced apparently reliable results. I now use this as a screening method for all new birds and for evaluating necropsy tissues, including those of hatchling early deaths or dead in shell. With EM, C. psittaci has been identified in postmortem tissues of neonates, even when a similar evaluation of droppings from the parent birds was found free of the organism. For example, a pair of Goffin Cockatoos was determined to be "negative" for C. psittaci based on EM examination of a fecal congregate collected daily over a two week period. When one of their hatchlings died at 2 days of age and the EM diagnosis was "positive" for C. psittaci, I decided to recheck the parent birds. This time, I collected fecal samples twice a day for a three week period for submission, and a positive was found. Thus it appears that submission of a significant volume of feces collected over an extended time period increases the probability of finding C. psittaci in suspected birds. Perhaps it is also significant that samples were included from both morning and evening droppings since little seems to be known about the shedding interval. In another instance, one of a clutch of three Red-bellied Parrots died at four days of age and was necropsied with no visible lesions; the EM diagnosis was positive for C. psittaci. The parents had previously been negative by serological testing and EM. I have also used the EM services to monitor birds during treatment for chlamydiosis with a number of different drug formulations. Two clutchmates of the Red-bellied Parrot that died were treated for 45 days with doxycycline syrup (Vibramycin - Pfizer) and C. psittaci were still found following the therapy. In another case, four African Greys (with EM detection of C. psittaci in the droppings) were treated for 45 days with a doxycycline-medicated formulated diet, but the results were also "positive" following the treatment. The EM results came back negative only after the flock had been treated experimentally with the European formulation of doxycycline. I monitored the African Greys during this experimental treatment by collecting droppings from each individual bird at 24 hour intervals following the initial injection. It is interesting to note that although the birds were negative at 24 hours following the treatment and from 72 hours on, 3 of the 4 birds were shedding the C. psittaci organism 48 hours post injection. I continue to submit samples on a routine basis but it has been months since I have had a positive C. psittaci finding. - Isabel Taylor, Salada Psittacines, Saluda, North Carolina</page></plain_text>