<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 16(2V 91-94 (1992) © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest On the physiognomy of edaphic plant communities of the Bükk Mountains L. Körmöczi Department of Ecology, A. József University, P. O. Box 659, H-6701 Szeged, Hungary Keywords: Abiotic environment, Bedrock, Community types, Microclimate, Structure Abstract: The climatically zonal forest communities of the Bükk Mts. exhibit a more or less regular altitudinal zonation. The variegated geomorphology and the resulting microclimatic and hydrographie conditions, as well as the diversity of parental materials are responsible for the complex mosaic and intricate successional relationships of intrazonal communities. This review discusses the physiognomic conditions of some edaphic communities and summarizes their successional relationships. Emphasis is placed on communities extensively studied for malacofauna in other papers in this volume; no attempt is made to give a full overview of all vegetation types of the mountains. Introduction The vegetation of the Bükk Mts. represents the temperate deciduous forest zone; the correspond- ing climatic communities cover extensive areas in the region. The altitudinal zonation of turkey oak forests, hornbeam-oak forests and submontane and montane beechwoods is a most characteristic feature. In addition, community types locally developed due to the variegated geomorphology, microclimate and soil conditions of the mountains are also important. Such edaphic communities are responsible for the mosaic-like structure of the forest vegetation of the Bükk Mts because, con- trary to the zonal vegetation types, they constitute relatively small stands often intermingled with each other. The large number of edaphic community types in- dicates the extreme variability of environmental conditions. Whereas only 4 zonal types occur in the mountains, the number of edaphic com- munities is much more (14 types, many associa- tions within each, for example). This paper will emphasize the major intrazonal communities that represent given types associated with a combina- tion of bedrock and microclimatic conditions. The intrazonal communities form an intricate successional network with one another and the zonal (climax) types. Often, there are marked dif- ferences in species composition, dominance rela- tions and species interactions between the communities although they may be quite similar in physiognomic structure. It is to be shown whether the animal assemblages or certain groups of species reflect the structural changes of vegeta- tion, and if so, at which points along the succes- sional sere. The speed of succession and the effect of environmental heterogeneities may differ with communities considerably. Therefore, the study of the joint behavior of co- occurring populations is essential for understanding these communities. Successional relationships The evaluation of successional pathways is a dif- ficult task if we consider the multitude of back- ground factors. The most probable trends can be identified, however, with some restrictions. Whereas the geographical distribution of zonal forest types is well-defined in terms of altitutinal limits (dependence on macroclimate), the edaphic and intrazonal communities cannot be described on similar grounds.</page><page sequence="2">92 Stands that remain unchanged for a long time due to special conditions (e.g., hard bedrock, specific microclimate or relatively low precipitation) are called stationary. With this in mind we may con- sider the following scheme which shows potential relationships and main features of the com- munities studied here. rock grasslands steppe meadows -» bush forests -* zonal II I ► scree forests r forests ► scree forests altitude: low +- -&gt; high bedrock: calcareous *- -* lime free exposition: southern *- -* northern In the development of closely natural stands, early successional stages are the rock grasslands. They appear on rock outcrops with thin and discon- tinuous soil layer. The slopes are usually very steep and soil accumulation is hindered by strong erosion. The fragmentation of hard bedrock is a relatively slow process, and fine grains necessary for soil development can hardly accumulate. Thanks to the limiting conditions, the rock grassland is a sparse vegetation type; loose as- semblages of plants occur on skeletal soils ac- cumulated in holes and rock crevices. Plant cover is thus very small, from a few % to 20-30%. On less steep slopes erosion is weaker and plant cover may significantly increase, up to 50-60%. This stage is a transition towards the steppe meadows. In bare rock surface crustate thalii of lichens ap- pear. Their size depends on humidity; larger thalii may be found at northern exposition. Various bryophytes are also common, usually accompany- ing higher plants in rock holes. The open rock grassland vegetation is composed of short species, up to a few decimeters. Exposi- tion plays a secondary role in affecting vegetation structure. The dominant constituents of the com- munity are bedrock- dependent; whereas the ap- pearance of accompanying species is determined by microclimatic factors arising from differences in exposition of the site. Species number is generally low, rarely exceeding 20-30 in each stand, and population sizes are also small because of space limitations. The occurrence of xeroder- mic grasses, succulents and hemiphanerophytes is a primary characteristic of the rock grasslands. Of these communities, the Festucetum glaucae Zólyomi 1936 and Diantho-Seslerietum Soó 1962, occurring on limestone, the Asplenio sep- tentrionali-Melicetum ciliatae Soó 1940, occurring Körmöczi: Plant communities of Btikk on siliceous material, and the Minuartio - Fes- tucetum pseudodalmaticae Klika 1938 associations were included in the malacological surveys (see Jakucs 1961, 1981, Juhász 1959, 1961, 1962, Suba 1983). The succession of rock grasslands proceeds towards the steppe meadows of slope angle is decreased by soil accumulation and erosion of the rock surface. Rock outcrops may still be present, but they cover much less area than the shallow soil layer. The steppe meadow vegetation is still primarily determined by the parent material; structural differences owing only to microclimate are smaller. The total cover and plant height in steppe meadows are higher than those of the previous as- sociations. The succulent and hemiphanerophytic life forms are mostly replaced by geophytes and therophytes which are adapted to a more con- tinental climate. The more favourable conditions lead to a higher species richness in this com- munity, with angiosperms dominating. The higher diversity of these communities is apparent from the abundance of flowering dicotyledonous species all around the vegetation season, with a short break in the very dry summer. Steppe meadows may appear in very different habitats, so that there are striking differences in species number and closeness of the stands. The total cover of stands close to the open rock grasslands may be as low as 50% with a relatively few species. The other extreme is 100% cover with more than 100 species per stand. Since these communities are basically influenced by the parent rocks, exposition is of secondary im- portance, influencing only species number at most. This weak effect may further diminish if slope angle is low. Decrease of species number in northern exposition is due to the disappearance of xerothermic species. Steppe meadows occur typically at rock cliffs, on warm and dry slopes, hilltops, and as secondary communities after clear cuts. On siliceous bedrock we have the Potentillo arenariae-Fes- tucetum pseudodalmaticae Soó 1959; on limestone occurs the more open Caricetum humilis Dostal 1933 (both possibly in stationary state). The more closed Cleistogeni-Festucetum rupicolae Soó 1964, and the Pulsatillo-Festucetum rupicolae Soó 1963 also occur (Jakucs 1981, Juhász 1959, 1961, 1962, Suba 1983).</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 16 (1992) The scree forests appearing on steep hillsides, rock cliffs and gravel slopes are the first represen- tatives of the woody vegetation. They derive from rock grasslands or steppe meadows. Geomorphol- ogy still prevents the development of thick soil layers, and intensive soil erosion and movement of rock fragments are also characteristic. There are two canopy layers, but the tree layer is not closed because of extreme habitat conditions. Scree forests are always mixed, the number of tree species is at least 5-6 per stand, and the number of shrub species is even higher. The herb layer is rich and diverse, although plant cover is rarely high. The appearance of the xerothermic linden-ash forests, found on several rock types, is strongly in- fluenced by the microclimate. They appear mostly on southern slopes; at low altitude in dry habitats we find the Tilio-Fraxinetum Zólyomi 1936 (also in stationary state) and higher up in more humid sites the association of Mercuriali-Tilietiim Zó- lyomi &amp; Jakucs 1958 develops. The rock beechwoods (Seslerio-Fagetiim Moor 1952) are similar, except that these are not xerotherm. Rock beechwoods occur usually on northern slopes exclusively on limestone sub- strate. The physiognomy also resembles to that of the scree forests; the stands are composed of smaller trees, closure is not complete and shrub layer is rich. The rich herb layer is closed on less steep slopes. The habitat and appearance of lin- den-sorb forests ( Tilio-Sorbetum Zólyomi &amp; Jakucs 1957) is similar to that of the scree forests; the bryophyte and herb layers are very rich. The forests developed on steep slopes of gorges also deserve attention here. Although the moving substrate of rock debris is also an essential in- fluencing factor, the cold, humid and less il- luminated habitat leads to a different physio- gnomy. The forest layer is mixed as with the other forests, but the canopy is closer, the trees are higher and the shrub layer is less developed. The understorey is very rich where tree density is high enough to stop rock movement. Ferns are com- mon in the herb layer, and several mosses appear. The most common gorge forest community is the Phy llitidi -Aceretwn Moor 1952 (Jakucs 1961, Juhász 1962, Suba 1983, Zólyomi et al. 1955). Another large group of woody communities is that of the bush forests. They occur mostly on shallow soil, just like the rock forests, but slope angle is lower. The composition is primarily determined by the substrate and microclimate. Due to the shallow, rocky soil the stands are 93 small, the trees have a shrub-like appearance and the canopy is not closed. The shrub and herb layers are diverse. The karstie bush forests grow- ing on limestone are the richest. The habitat characteristics (geomorphology, soil thickness, microclimate) do not allow extensive stands to develop; the bush forests form a mosaic-like vegetation with rock grasslands and steppe meadows. The most common vegetation type of karstie bush forests is the Ceraso mahaleb-Quercetum pubes- centis Jakucs &amp; Fekete 1957. The taller, ther- mophilous oakwoods of Como-Quercetum pubescentis Jakucs &amp; Zólyomi 1957 represent transition towards the zonal oakwoods. On acidic, limeless soils in the oakwood zone, the most widespread bushwood is the calcifugal oak- wood (Genisto tinctoriae-Quercetum petraeae Klika 1932). On the warmest southern slopes we have the Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae Zólyomi, Jakucs &amp; Fekete 1958. In the more humid beechwood region at higher elevation, the calcifugal beechwood (Deschamp sio-Fagetum Zólyomi 1954) occurs on shallow acidic soils (Fekete &amp; Jakucs 1968, Jakucs &amp; Fekete 1957, Juhász 1961, 1962, Zólyomi et al. 1955). Wetlands These communities develop along the streams of the mountains. Main constituting species are the hygrophytes and mesophytes. The most typical gallery forests are composed of several tree species, but dominated by alcier ( Alnetiim glutinosae-incanae Br-Bl 1915). Wherever the val- ley is broadened the forests have sufficient space to reach their best development. The edges of gallery forests form a mosaic with a tall forb vegetation which contributes with many species to the composition of gallery forests. In valleys with good water and nutrient supply, oc- casionally on clear-cut areas, develops a 1.5-2 m high, very productive herbaceous vegetation. This community causes a cold and humid microclimate in the surroundings. Depending on species com- position, we may have three different types, such as the Petasitetum hybridi Dostal 1933, the Filipen- dulo-Geranietum W. Koch 1926, and the Chaerophylletiim hirsuti Soó 1934. The infrequent bogs ( Cardaminetum amarne Br. Bl. 1926) are restricted to the acidic soils around springs. Bog vegetation is usually lower and more</page><page sequence="4">94 Körmöczi: Plant communities of Bükk tufted than the tall forb communities; the do- minance of acidophilus grasses is typical. The subsequent papers in this volume will use the following reference numbers of communities: Wetlands 1 Cardaminetum amarae BR-BL 1926 2 Filipendulo-Geranietum W KOCH 1926 3 Petasitetum hybridi DOSTAL 1933 4 Chaerophyletum hirsuti SOÓ 1934 5 Alnetum glutinosae-irtcanae BR-BL 1915 Communities on basic soils: 6 Caricetum humilis DOSTAL 1933 7 Festucetum glaucae ZÓLYOMI 1936 8 Diantho-Seslerietum SOÓ 1962 9 Pulsatillo- Festucetum rupicolae SOÓ 1963 10 Cleistogeni- Festucetum rupicolae SOÓ 1964 11 Ceraso mahaleb-Quercetum pubescentis JAKUCS et FEKETE 1957 12-13 Corno-Quercetum pubescentis JAKUCS et ZÓLYOMI 1957 14 Quercetum petraeae-cerris SOÓ 1957 15 Querco petraeae-Carpinetum SOÓ 1957 16 Melitti-Fagetum SOÓ 1962 17 Aconito-Fagetum SOÓ 1960 18 Tilio-Fraxinetum ZÓLYOMI 1936 19 Seslerio-Fagetum MOOR 1952 20 Phyllitidi-Aceretum MOOR 1952 21 Tilio-Sorbetum ZÓLYOMI et JAKUCS 1957 Communities on acidic soils: 22 Asplenio septentrionali-Melicetum ciliatae SOÓ 1940 23 Potentìllo arenariae- Festucetum pseudodalmaticae SOÓ 1959 24 Ceraso mahaleb-Quercetum pubescentis JAKUCS et FE- KETE 1957 25-26 Corno-Quercetum pubescentis JAKUCS et ZÓLYOMI 1957 27 Genisto pilosae-Quercetum petraeae ZÓLYOMI-JAKUCS- FEKETE 1958 28 Genisto tinctoriae-Quercetum petraeae KLIKA 1932 29 Luzulo-Querco-Carpinetum SOÓ 1957 30 Deschampsio-Fagetum ZÓLYOMI 1954 Communities under strong human impact: 31 Succiso-Molinietum SOÓ 1960 32 Salvio-Fesucetum rupicolae ZÓLYOMI 1958 33 Anthy Ilido- Festucetum MÁTHÉ et KOVÁCS 1960 34 Pastinaco-Arrhenatheretum SOÓ 1971 35 Fragario-Rubetum PFEIFFER 1936 36 Melitti-Fagetum SOÓ 1962 References Fekete, G. &amp; Jakucs, P. 1968. A Biikk-hegység xerotherm tölgyerdöje ( Corno-Quercetum ). Bot. Közlem. 55:59-66. Jakucs, P. 1961. Az Északi-Kôzéphegység keleti felének nôvényzete. (Die Pflanzendecke der Osthalfte des nördlichen Mittelgebirges.). Földr. Ért. 10:357-377. Jakucs, P. 1981. Magyarország legfontosabb nôvénytársulásai. In: Hortobágyi, T. &amp; Simon, T. (eds.) Nôvényfôldrajz, társulástan és ôkológia. Tankônyvkiadó, Budapest, pp. 225- 266. Jakucs, P. &amp; Fekete, G. 1957. Der Karst buschwald des nordöstlichen ungarischen Mittelgebirges. Acta Bot. Acad. Sci. Hung. 3:253-259. Juhász, L. 1959. A bükki Nagymezó nôvényzete. Acta Acad. Paed. Agr. 5:495-505. Juhász, L. 1961. Az Eger-kôrnyéki táj szerepe a Fòioskolai nö- vénytani oktatásban I. Szarvaskõ. Acta Acad. Paed. Agr. 7:143-149. Juhász, L. 1962. Az Eger-kôrnyéki táj szerepe a Fõiskolai nö- vénytani oktatásban I. Bélkõ. Acta Acad. Paed. Agr. 8:131- 138. Soó, R. 1964. A magyar flóra és vegetáció rendszertani- nôvényfôldrajzi kézikônyve I. Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest Suba, J. 1983. A Bükk nôvényei. In: Sándor, A. (ed.) Kilátás a kövekröl. Bükki Nemzeti Park. Mezõgazdasági Kiadó, Budapest, pp. 189-236. Zólyomi, B., Jakucs, P., Baráth, Z. &amp; Horánszky, A. 1955. Forstwirtschaftliche Ergebnisse der Geobotanischen Kar- tierung im Bükkgebirge. Acta Bot. Acad. Sei. Hung. 1:361- 395.</page></plain_text>