<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 15:89-98 (1991) © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest An asymmetric bin-free method for measuring two-dimensional niche overlap B. Tóthmérész Plant Sciences Department, University of Oxford, South Parks Road, Oxford, OX1 3RA, England . Permanent and present address: Ecological Institute, L. Kossuth University, Debrecen, P.O.Box 14, H-4010 Hungary. Keywords: Niche overlap estimation, niche space, two-dimensional asymmetric niche overlap, resource utilization function. Abstract: Each of the traditional niche overlap statistics requires the estimation of a density function (the so-called resource utilization function) and the result depends heavily on the arbitrary choice of the bin size or bandwidth. I propose an original two-dimensional niche overlap index which does not require the direct estimation of the resource utilization function, hence does not depend on the arbitrary choice of the bin size. The method measures a real two-dimensional overlap, not the overlap of one-dimensional 'shadows' (marginal distributions). The procedure of calculation is illustrated by an elementary example. Using computer simulation, an ecologically relevant situation is studied and the result is compared with the results of traditional methods (Levins, Schoener, Pianka, Petraitis). It is demonstrated that the presented method can overcome the artifacts of the one-dimensional overlap estimations and it is capable of describing correctly the resource utilization structure of species in the niche space. The method is effective when the overlap statistics are calculated from small samples. Introduction and some basic definitions There are a great many niche overlap indices in the ecological literature. Each of these is based on the grouping of raw observations on resource con- sumption of a species into a frequency distribu- tion or frequency histogram. This requires the range of utilized resource to be divided into equal-sized bins, and the number of observed resource utilization values that fall into each bin plotted as the height of a bar centered in that bin (Fig. la). Thus the abscissa represents the vari- able (e.g., number of eaten prey of that size), and the ordinate represents the frequencies. If we measure niche overlap, scaling of the histogram is almost always done by dividing the height of each bar by the product of the bin size and the number of data (Fig. lb). In this way the area under the histogram is 1 and the histogram actually es- timates the resource utilization function of the population. The histogram is the most familiar density representation. From it, we can glean a lot of information about the resource utilization. However, the choice of bin size for the grouping is somewhat arbitrary. Thus, the niche overlap es- timation, which relies on the resource utilization histogram, depends heavily on the choice of bin size. In multispecies communities where the resource utilization is wide, the correct choice of bin size is really a serious practical problem. I present in this paper an original two-dimen- sional niche overlap measure which does not re- quire the (direct) creation of a resource utilization histogram, therefore the result does not depend on the arbitrary choice of the bin size. It can be said, referring to this characteristic of the method, that it is 'scale-free'; however, more precisely it is 'bin-free'. No other overlap estima- tion method can overcome this problem. It is</page><page sequence="2">90 Tóthmérész: Two-dimensional niche overlaps Figure 1. Bar diagrams, (a) Frequency distribution of a sample from a random variable, (b) Relative frequency distribution or histogram; the sum of the proportions for all the individual ciasses is 1; bin size or bandwidth is unity. [For example, frequency distribution (a), and rela- tive frequency distribution (b) of food particle weights in a diet.] achieved by calculating the overlap directly from the raw data and not from the resource utilization histogram. This brings some other benefits, for ex- ample, the method performs well in estimating two-dimensional (or even multidimensional) niche overlap and is relatively insensitive to small sample size. It measures the real two-dimensional overlap and not the overlap of the 'one-dimen- sional shadows' (Fig. 2). This problem is known as the paradox of niche overlap estimation (Pianka 1981, p. 173). From a biological point of view, the method is based on the Hutchinsonian concept of niche, namely, that the niche of a species is a set in an n-dimensional niche space (Hutchinson 1957). Figure 2. Two-dimensional resource utilization functions of two species along two niche dimensions (e.g., prey size and foraging height above the ground) and the one- dimensional marginal distributions. Note that, although the "shadows" of the two- dimensional resource utiliza- tion functions on each separate niche dimension overlap, there is no overlap between the resource utilizations in the two-dimensional niche space. As with any elementary procedure, the overlap es- timation is a very simple one. However, it is still necessary to explain and define some terms I shall use frequently in this paper; all of the definitions are simple and straightforward. If we have a two-dimensional niche space and for each individual we measure the two values of resource utilization along the two niche dimen- sions, we have an a¡=(aii,a¡2) two-dimensional data array for species 'A' based on the i-th sample. The order of numbers in (a¡i,ai2) is important be- cause aii is a value measured along the first dimension, a¡2 is a value measured along the second dimension. In mathematics (aii,a¡2) is said Figure 3. A two-dimensional "observed resource utiliza- tion set" and the "observed resource utilization values". There are nA=19 two-dimensional observations.</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 15 (1991) 91 to be an ordered pair or two-dimensional vector or simply a point of a two-dimensional space. We call such ordered pairs as 'observed resource utilization values'. During an ecological study we have many samples of the resource utilization of a population. Each of these is an observed resource utilization value, and the total is the 'observed resource utilization set' (Fig. 3). The 'resource utilization function ' is a theoretical probability function fx(x) of a random variable X which describes the resource consumption of the Figure 4. (a) A Normal or Gaussian probability density function with fi= 4 and &lt;7=1, which is a theoretical resource utilization function of a population; (b) and a sample histogram or resource utilization histogram created after having taken a sample of size 20 from a population having a Gaussian resource utilization func- tion like Fig. 4(a). studied population or the sample estimation of it by the relative frequency distribution. If we would like to refer specifically to the estimation of fx(x) from a sample we say 'resource utilization histogram ' which, in this article, almost always means the relative frequency distribution or scaled histogram which integrates to one. If we would like to speak about fx(x) alone we say 'theoretical resource utilization function' (Fig. 4). The idea of an observed resource utilization set is closely related to the two-dimensional resource utilization histogram and the marginal histograms of it; these are displayed in Fig. 5 without any dis- cussion of the mathematical details. Asymmetric niche overlap: description of the procedure Assume that we have a two-dimensional niche space spanned by two resource (e.g., food) dimen- sions, and we are studying two populations of species A and B. We have some observed resource utilization values (e.g., observations or measure- ments for the eaten food), nA for the species A, and nß for the species B. These are Ai, A2,...,An for the resource utilization of species A and Bi, B2,...,Bn for species B (Fig. 6). Therefore Ai and Bi are (two-dimensional) observed resource utilization values for the resource utilization of species A and B, respectively. The set {Aí; i=l,...,nA&gt; is the observed resource utilization set of species A {B¡; i=l,...,nB} is the observed resource utilization set of species B. Frequently we write simply that A={A¡; i=l,...,nA} and B={B¡; i=l,...,nß}; that is we denote by the same capital letter the name of the studied population of the species and the observed resource utiliza- tion set. We would like to find a suitable characterization of the resource utilization pattern of species A and B. If we know all the distances between the observed resource utilization values we have a 'good* description of the resource utilization structure; i.e., we are interested in the following distances: d(Ai,Bj) = [(first coordinate of Ai - first coor- dinate of Bj)2 + (second coordinate of A¡ - second coordinate of Bj)2]1/2 = =v(Aii-Bji)2 + (Ai2- Bj2)2, i=l,...,nA; j=l,..,nB where nA is the number of sampled resource values for A, nß is the number of sampled resource values for B, and d(.,.) means the Euclidean distance between the observed resource utilization values of Ai and Bj measured in a two- dimensional niche space. These distance values describe the resource utilization pattern of the species in the niche space.</page><page sequence="4">92 Tóthmérész: Two-dimensional niche overlaps ļ ' Figure 5. The relation between the observed resource utilization set (a), resource utilization histogram (d), and the one- dimensional marginal distributions of the two-dimensional resource utilization, (b) and (c) explain the creation of the two-dimensional resource utilization histogram from the observed resource utilization set. If we have nA and nB samples this results in nAnB distance values. This is a very big number even if nA and nB are rather limited. For example, if nA=nB=10 this gives 100 distance values; this description of a resource utilization pattern is 'too detailed*. One hundred figures say little because this figure is too high to realize the pattern. We have to find a more suitable description of the structure. A very simple solution is to calculate the average of the distances, bût such averaging can obscure the differences. If all distances are ap- proximately the same, or some of the distances are very big and some of them are small, the average is the same in both cases. But as we are particularly interested in the distance structure of the resource utilization sets, the average is un- satisfactory. I propose a simple, readily computed solution. Let us choose an arbitrary resource utilization value from the set of observed resource utilization of species A and find the nearest neighbour</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 15 (1991) 93 resource utilization value from the set of observed resource utilization values of species B (Fig. 7). We are interested in the nearest neighbour dis- tance for each resource utilization value of A and B, respectively. This straightforward procedure is depicted, mathematically as follows: {nearest neighbour distance of a point x of A to B} « min{d(x,b); beB}, {nearest neighbour distance of point y of B to A} = min{d(a,y); aSA}. Figure 6. Observed resource utilization sets for species A and B; nA=17 and ne =23. Note that we have nA+nB distances instead of nAnß; a great advantage e.g., when nA=nB=10, only 20 distance values are generated instead of 100. But we are still not satisfied; even nA+nB is likely to be too large in real situations. Try to characterize the distance of the observed resource utilization set of species A from the ob- served resource utilization set of species B by the maximum of the nearest neighbour distances. This is a very reasonable step. In the preliminary step we sought some 'minimum' properties of the resource utilization pattern but now consider some 'maximum' properties. If two niches over- lap, it is very probable that some of the nearest neighbour distances are zero (or almost zero). We are looking for the biggest nearest neighbour dis- tances because our intuition says when there are observed resource utilization values in A which are distant from those of B (i.e., the nearest neighbour distance is large) then a large part of the utilized resources of A do not overlap with the utilized resources of B (Fig. 8a). When there is a large overlap then the biggest nearest neighbour distance is small (Fig. 8b). A similar argument is true for the nearest neighbour distances of species B from A. Note, however, that it is possible that the maximum of the nearest neighbour distances of A from B is high (i.e., the overlap of B to A is not high) but the maximum of nearest neighbour distances of B to A is small (i.e., the overlap of A to B is high; Fig. 8c). This interpretation is quite reasonable from an ecological point of view as in- teractions between species are frequently asym- metric. The result of the above procedure is two figures (independent of nA and nß): the maximum of nearest neighbour distances from A to B and the maximum of nearest neighbour distances from B to A which are denoted by d(A,B) and d(B,A), and these are named 'resource utilization distance of A to B' and '... B to A', respectively. These two values characterize the overlap of species A to B and B to A. These values are not equal except in special cases. A high value indicates low overlap and vice versa. More exactly there are four typical possibilities (Fig. 8a-d). (a) If both d(A,B) and d(B,A) are large this indicates small overlap of A to B and B to A. (b) If both d(A,B) and d(B,A) are small this indicates large overlap of A to B and B to A (c) If d(A,B) is big and d(B,A) is small this indicates large overlap of A to B and small overlap of B to A. (d) If d(A,B) is small and d(B,A) is large this indicates a great overlap of B to A and small overlap of A to B. Figure 7. Nearest neighbour distances for the resource utilization set A where the nearest neighbour is chosen . from B and vice versa. This type of "nearest neighbour" relation is denoted by " - It is evident from the graph of the relation that this is not necessarily a sym- metric relation.</page><page sequence="6">94 Tóthmérész: Two-dimensional niche overlaps Figure 8. Some important special cases of niche relations of two species. The biggest nearest neighbour distances of A to B and vice versa are indicated; these are, in fact, the d(A,B) and d(B,A) resource utilization distances. Special example This example is rather simple, perhaps too simple to be of real ecological meaning, but I decided to use this one first because the method is so very different in its treatment of the problem of over- lap measuring and I hope that the simplicity of this example will help to clarify the basic idea. As- sume that we have a two-dimensional niche space and we are studying two populations of species A and B. We have nA samples for species A and nß for species B. At least 20 would be needed for each, but for simplicity we assume that we have only three samples for species A and two samples for species B (nA=3; nß=2). These are Ai, Az and A3 for the resource utilization of species A; Bi and B2 for species B (Fig. 9). Ai, A2 and A3 are (two-dimensional) observed resource utiliza-</page><page sequence="7">Abstracta Botanica 15 (1991) 95 Figure 9. A rather special example for the resource utilization set of species A and B, respectively. tion values of species A. The set {A1.A2.A3} is the observed resource utilization set of species A. In this case A = (Al.A2.A3) = ((All,Al2), (A21.A22). (A31.A32)) = ((12), (2,1). (2. 3)) and B = (Bi,B2) = ((BH,BI2), (B21JB22)) = ((2,2). (3,2)) We can calculate all the distances between the resource utilization values because we have only nA nB = 2'3 = 6 distance values; these are the fol- lowing d(Ai.Bi) = {(1-2)2 + (2.2)2} = ļ d(Ai,B2) = {(1-3) + (2-2)?} =2 d(A2,B 1) = {(2-2) + (1-2) } = 1 d(A2,B2) = {(2-3) + (1-2) } = vT = 1.41 d(A3,Bi)={(2-2) + (3-2f&gt; = 1 d(A3,B2) = {(2-3) + (3-2) }= VI = 1.41 TTiese distances characterize the resource utiliza- tion pattern of the species in the niche space. In this example we have 3 samples from population A and 2 samples from population B to give six dis- tance values. From these distances we can find the nearest neighbour distances between the points of A and B. In the case of Ai this distance is the fol- lowing: min{d(Ai,Bi),d(Ai,B2)} = min{1.2} = 1; and in the case of A2 this distance is min{d(A2,Bi),d(A2.B2)} = min{ 1,1.41} = 1; and in the case of A3 this distance is min{d(A3,Bi),d(A3,B2)} - min{1.1.41} = 1. We can calculate similar distances for the resource utilization set B: min{d(BiAi),d(Bi,A2),d(Bi,A3)} = = min{ 1,1,1} = 1 and min{d(B2,Ai),d(B2,A2),d(B2,A3)} = » min{2, 1.41, 1.41} = 1.41. Finally, the biggest of the nearest neighbour dis- tances of A to B is the d(A,B) resource utilization distance of A to B. d(A,B)=max{l,l,l}=l; and similarly d(B,A)=max{ 1,1.41} = 1.41. À realistic example by computer simulation An obvious way of assessing and comparing dif- ferent methods is to simulate populations of known resource utilization structure, and then to apply the methods to such populations. Assume that we have a two-dimensional niche space and we are studying three populations. The resource utilization of each is characterized by bivariate normal distributions with respective means (6,10.24), (10.24,6), (11.8,11.8) and a unit variance-covariance matrix. The means of these resource utilization functions lie at the corners of an equilateral triangle with sides equal to 6 stan- dard deviations. Fig. 10 illustrates three random samples, each of size 50 and Fig. 11 displays the two- dimensional frequency distributions and the marginal distributions of these. The sample was created by computer simulation using the so- called polar Box-Müller method (Dagpunar 1988). I calculated the one-dimensional overlaps along the first and second dimensions by fre- Figure 10. Three bivariate normal samples; i.e., the ob- served resource utilization sets for three populations. The samples are taken from populations characterized by bivariate normal resource utilizations with respective means (6,10.14), (10.24,6), (11.8,11.8) and unit variance- covariance matrix. The means of these resource utilization functions lie at the corners of an equilateral triangle with sides equal to 6. The sample size is 50; i.e., nA=nß= nc=50.</page><page sequence="8">96 Tóthmérész: Two-dimensional niche overlaps quently used overlap estimation methods (Levins 1968, Petraitis 1979, 1985, Schoener 1968, 1974, Smith 1984) and compared them to the result of the presented method and to the original resource utilizations which were sampled. The results are presented in Table 1. We can see that there is no overlap between the first and second and between the first and third species along the first dimen- sion. The overlap is 38% by the Schoener overlap between the second and third species along the first dimension and close to 50% by the Levins, Pianka and Petraitis (general) overlap indices. These overlap values seem too high; indeed there is no overlap between the two-dimensional Figure 11. The two-dimensional resource utilization histograms of samples displayed on Fig. 10 and the one-dimensional marginal distributions. In the case of the two-dimensional resource utilization histogram the height of bars centered in that bin is just indicated by a figure.</page><page sequence="9">Abstracta Botanica 15 (1991) 97 Table 1. Niche overlaps calculated by traditional and by the proposed methods between species A, B, and C. In the case of asymmetric overlaps [Levins, Petraitis (specific)] the first figure is the overlap of the "1st" species to the "2nd" one and the second figure is the overlap of the "2nd" species to the "1st one". d(.,.) is also asymmetric, but it results in one figure which characterize the resource utilization distance between the species in the two-dimensional niche space and not separately along each dimension. I""™" P&lt; öcnoener Uvina __l._ """""" "" 2nd 2nd 1st let l8t dl-n.lon ¿tension dimension dinension distension ■ °;°ļ| A 0.004 " - - - - B g A 0.600 - " - - ; ||? - C n'*?* B-C U 0.380 0.497 : . 0 1 3 let distension " - " - n'*?* U 0 1 3 Uvina - - U . 0 1 3 2nd dl-n.lon °;°ļ| g ; ||? : l8t dimension - - 0.380 öcnoener 2nd ¿tension 0.004 0.600 P&lt; __l._ 1st dinension - - 0.497 2nd dimension 0.014 0.705 Petraitis let &lt;li®«n«lon - - 0.548 (general) 2nd dimeneion 0.043 0.661 1st dimension ~ ~ " " ^ 0 • [Tijļ 039 Petraitis ~ " 0 039 (specific) n nflQ 2nd dimension _ 0 448 - d(lst species, 2nd species) 6.173 5.687 5.964 H d (2nd species. 1st species) 5.822 6.307 6.461 resource utilization functions. The specific over- lap values (Petraitis 1979) are significantly smaller. Along the second dimension the overlap is very limited between the first and second species and there is no overlap between the second and third species. The overlap is 60% by the Schoener overlap between the first and third species and approximately 70% by the Levins, Pianka and Petraitis (general) overlap. The over- laps are again significantly smaller by the specific overlap of Petraitis (8.9% and 44.8%), but the strong asymmetry is strange because the original two-dimensional resource utilization functions are symmetric bell-shaped curves with the same form, th,us there is no reason for asymmetry. It is evident that these high values are artifacts of the one- dimensional overlap estimation method. The specific overlap of Petraitis performs better than the others, however it produced an asymmetric result in the case of species A and C along the second dimension. From the one-dimensional results it is not easy to recognize the original niche space structure, or even impossible if we have more than three species (or more than two dimensions). The method proposed in this article, however, clearly demonstrates the original 2- dimensional niche space structure; i.e., that the means of the resource utilization functions lie at the corners of an equilateral triangle with side equal to 6 standard deviations (units) because all d(.,.) values in Table 1 are approximately 6. The difference is the result of sampling error. The range of the sample is not greater than 5 along both the first and the second niche dimension thus we surmise that there is no overlap between the resource utilization functions. This problem can be examined in detail by elaborate mathe- matical methods which are discussed elsewhere (Tóthmérész 1987b). Discussion and further perspectives Ecology has a long history of various measures being developed for quantities such as niche breadth and overlap. The variety of such indices has led some ecologists to argue that there is no reason to explore further new indices since they all give the same general results, and most of these have a very short life-time in the literature and end up contributing nothing new to biological understanding. This argument is unacceptable to me. Different indices have sometimes strikingly different (sampling) properties and although the qualitative results are the same in typical cases, in atypical cases, or when the change in the niche structure of the studied community is small, the result may be very different because different in- dices reflect different characteristics of the resource utilization pattern. The overlap measur- ing method proposed here differs significantly from the others used in the literature, represent- ing a completely new stage of multidimensional niche overlap measurement. The traditional methods of niche overlap estimation (e.g., Levins, Schoener, Pianka, Petraitis) are based on the one- (or more) dimensional resource utilization his- tograms (or resource utilization functions) of the species. The method proposed in this article is based on the original data without grouping or rearranging them into a resource utilization his- togram. The calculations are carried out on the base of the point set structure of resource utiliza- tions. This is the reason for the rather non-mathe- matical presentation. I hope that this will facilitate the understanding and acceptance of the method leading to its wide use in two- (or more) dimensional niche studies. The method is dis- cussed in a more mathematical way, applicable to the n-dimensional case elsewhere (Tóthmérész 1987b). It is possible to modify the method to give symmetric overlap value (Tóthmérész 1987a). There are some nice mathematical tools to trans- form the d(A,B) and d(B,A) distance values to similarity-type overlap values, ranging from 0 to 1; however, these procedures involve more mathe- matics (Tóthmérész 1987b). We also note that d(A,B) and d(B,A) are not a metric (distance) in</page><page sequence="10">98 Tóthmérész: Two-dimensional niche overlaps the strict sense of mathematics. With some addi- tional mathematical modifications of the method it is possible to derive such a distance value. I am convinced that one of the most important ques- tions in niche theory is the study of the geometry of niche space. Whereas non-Euclidean niche space structures were studied by nobody. It is very probable, however, that the niche space has non- Euclidean structure in many cases. The method presented here serves as a very powerful tool for measuring distances in more than one-dimen- sional non-Euclidean niche space (Tóthmérész 1987b). In some applications it may be important to know not only the d(A,B) and d(B,A) distances but whether there is any real overlap between the species or not. This may be resolved, in two- dimensions by graphical display of the data. It is also possible to use formal mathematical pro- cedures but it is not discussed here. I am present- ing only a simple procedure which is based on the comparison of resource utilization distances and ranges of resource utilizations of species along the niche dimensions. Acknowledgements I am indebted to the Soros Foundation for supporting my visit and work in Oxford. This research was partially supported by the Hungarian Academy of Sciences (OTKA 1/3) as well. I am also grateful to those persons who helped with their comments improving the manuscript. References Dagpunar, J. 1988. Principles of Random Number Generation. Clarendon Press, Oxford. Hutchinson, G. E. 1957. Concluding remarks. Cold Spring Harbor Symp. Quant. Biol. 22:415-427. Levins, R. 1968. Evolution in Changing Environments. Prin- ceton University Press, Princeton. Petraitis, P. S. 1979. Likelihood measures of niche breadth and overlap. Ecology 60:703-710. Petraitis, P. S. 1985. The relationship between likelihood niche measures and replicated tests for goodness-of-fit. Ecology 66:1983-1985. Pianka, E. R. 1973. The structure of lizard communities. An- nual Review of Ecology and Systematics 4:53-74. Pianka, E. R. 1981. Competition and niche theoiy. In: R. M. May (ed.) Theoretical Ecology, 2nd ed., pp. 167-196. Smith, E. P. 1984. A note on the general likelihood measure of overlap. Ecology 65:323-324. Schoener, T. W. 1968. The Anolis lizards of Bimini: resource partitioning in a complex fauna. Ecology 49:704-726. Schoener, T. W. 1974. Resource partitioning in ecological communities. Science 185:27-38. Tóthmérész, B. 1987a. An original method for measuring niche overlap. International Symposium on Numerical Syn- taxonomy and Syndynamics (poster), Unovce (CSSR) Tóthmérész, B. 1987b. Niche Theoretical Models and Secon- dary Succession. PhD Dissertation (in Hungarian) pp. 145, Kossuth L. University, Debrecen, Hungary. Received October 2, 1991</page></plain_text>