<plain_text><page sequence="1">74 earlier at Toronto and St. Helena than at the Cape of Good Hope and Hobarton. The comportment of the two equinoctial months, March and September, at the Cape of Good Hope and St. Helena is pointed out as presenting a remarkable contrast to that of the two solstitial groups which have been described, and at the same time a still more remarkable contrast to each other, March being at almost all the hours on the West, and September on the East, of the mean line. In conclusion the author points out one or two practical conside- rations suggested by the facts under notice:- 1. That as, in the Annual Variation represented in the plate, the same months occupy positions on opposite sides of the mean line at different parts of the twenty-four hours, the mean annual variation, or that which is shown by the mean values in each month taken from all the observation hours, must be merely a residual and not an abso- lute quantity; and that consequently natural features must be more or less masked in deductions in which only mean values are brought into view. In fact, as has been shown in the published volumes of the observations at St. Helena and HI-obarton, the mean annual va- riation at those stations is so small as to be scarcely sensible. But when we resolve these mean results into their respective constituents, viz. the annual variation at each of the observation hours, there is then at once disclosed to us an order of natural phenomena, very far from inconsiderable in amount, systematic in general aspect, and apparently well deserving the attention of those who are occupied in the delightful and highly intellectual pursuit of tracing the agen- cies of nature. 2. We perceive in the variations of the position of the several months in the annual range, the necessity of paying regard to the period of the year, as well as to the period of the day at which ob- servations have been made which do not include long intervals, and from which, nevertheless, inferences are drawn in respect to secular change. Such observations, when not those of a fixed observatory, are usually made at some hour in the day-time, when it needs only a glance at the plate to perceive that annual as well as diurnal variation-corrections are required, unless the month as well as the hour are the same in the earlier and later observations. A table of corrections for every hour of the day to the mean value in each month-corrections derived, as in the instances now before the So- ciety, from a series of strictly comparable observations continued for several years-should be considered, not merely as a desirable, but as an almost indispensable provision, in countries where magnetic surveys are conducted with the degree of perfection of which they are now susceptible. 3. The subjoined Notice by Monsieur A. Quetelet, Foreign Member of the Society, is entitled "Sur les ondes atmospheriques." J'ai eu l'honneur de deposer, dans la seance precedente, un travail imprime sur les pressions et ondes atmospheriques, fesant partie d'un ouvrage sur le climat de la Belgique. Si je me permets d'appeler,</page><page sequence="2">75 aujourd'hui, l'attention de l'assembl6e sur quelques.uns des princi. paux resultats auxquels je suis parvenu, c'est bien moins pour etablir ce qui a ete fait, que pour signaler les lacunes qui existent encore dans cette branche importante de la physique du globe, et pour inviter les observateurs a les combler. Dans les fluctuations que subissent les pressions atmospheriques, on sait qu'un meme mininmum se pr6sente en general sur une serie de points qui sont lies par la loi de continuite, et qui torment ainsi, a la surface du globe, une ligne plus o monins etendue. Cette ligne de pression minimum est mobile et se deplace avec des vitesses et des directions queje me suis principalement propose d'6tudier. On peut, par analogie avec ce qui se passe sur les mers, nomlmer onde atmo- spherique, l'intervalle qui separe deux lignes de pression minimum; et crete de l'onde la ligne de pression maximum. Sir John Herschel a ete le premier a appeler s6rieusement l'at- tention des physiciens sur la nature des ondes atmospheriques; et il est parvenu a plusieurs resultats int6ressants. M. Birt s'est princi- palement attache a signaler les proprietes de ce qu'il lnomrme la grande onde de Novembre. En mettant a profit toutes les observations regulieres que j'ai pu reunir pour le nord de l'Europe et de l'Asie, j'ai essaye d'embrasser la solution du probl&amp;ne dans toute sa generalite. On pourra voir, dans-la memoire que j'ai eu l'honneur d'offrir a la Societ6 Royale, les ondes atmospheriques representees sur une s6rie de cartes figura- tives pour trois mois cons6cutifs. Ces cartes montrent surtout que- 1. L'atmosphere est generalement traversee par plusieurs sy- stemes d'ondes diff6rents; mais, au milieu de tous les mouvements particuliers, il se prononce un systeme d'ondes predominant qui semble rester a peu pres constant pour un meme climat. 2. Les ondes atmospheriques, tant en Europe qu'en Asie, se pro- pagent du nord au sud, sans avoir toutefois la m6me vitesse; elles marchent plus rapidement dans le systeme Asiatique et dans le sy- steme de l'Europe centrale, qu'en Russie ou dans les montagnes de l'Oural. 3. Les ondes atmosph6riques semblent se propager avec moins d'obstacles a la surface des mers qu'a l'interieur des terres. En ge- neral, les asp6rites du globe, et particulierement les chaines de mon- tagnes, diininuent leur vitesse et modifient aussi leur intensite. 4. La vitesse avec laquelle les ondes atmospheriques se propa- gent est tres variable; elle peut etre estimee moyennement de 6 a 10 lieues de Franue a l'heure: elle est un peu plus grande dans 1'Europe centrale, et moindre en Russie. 5. Les directions des vents n'ont pas de rapports apparents avec les directions des ondes barometriques; il parait en etre de ces ondes comme des ondes sonores qui se transmettent dans toutes les direc- tions, malgre l'obstacle des vents, lesquels pourraient a la v6rite, en modifier l'intensite et la vitesse. Ces premiers resultats, soumis a de nouveaux examens, et controles par des systemes d'observations plus complets, conduiront certaine- ment a des conclusions tres importantes pour la meteorologie et</page><page sequence="3">76 1'6tude des grands phenomenes de la physique du globe. On peut reconnaitre, des a present, que le nombre des stations necessaires pour etablir la loi de continuite est insuffisant, surtout dans toute l'etendue de l'Asie. June 5, 1851. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. The Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day. The Statutes for the election of Fellows having been read, Dr. Roget and Mr. Spence were, with the consent of the Society, ap- pointed Scrutators. The votes of the Fellows present having been collected, the fol- lowing gentlemen were declared duly elected:- Charles Cardale Babington, Esq. AugustusWilliam Hofmann, Esq. Thomas Snow Beck, M.D. Thomas Henry Huxley, Esq. Charles James Fox Bun bury, Esq. William Edmond Logan, Esq. George T. Doo, Esc. James Paget, Esq. Edward B. Eastwick, Esq. George Gabriel Stokes, Esq. Captain Charles M. Elliot. William Thomson, Esq. Captain Robert FitzRoy, R.N. Augustus V. Waller, M.D. John Russell Hind, Esq. The Society then adjourned to the 19th of June. June 19, 1851. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. The following gentlemen were admitted into the Society: Charles Cardale Babington, Esq. Captain Robert Fitz-Roy, R.N. Thomas Snow Beck, M.D. Thomas Henry Huxley, Esq. Edward B. Eastwick, Esq. William Edmond Logan, Esq. Captain Charles M. Elliot. George Gabriel Stokes, Esq. His Grace the Duke of Argyll was balloted for, and elected a Fellow of the Society. The following papers were then read:- 1. " Researches in Symbolical Physics. On the Translation of a Directed Magnitude as Symbolised by a Product. The Principles of Statics established symbolically." By the Rev. M. O'Brien, M.A., late Fellow of Caius College, Cambridge, and Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King's College, London. Communi- cated by W. A. Miller, M.D., F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 10, 1851. In this communication the author (starting from the well-known</page></plain_text>