<plain_text><page sequence="1">221 A Letterfrom LewisWeston Dillwyn, Esq., addressed to Sir Humphry Davy, Bart. P.R.S. Read March 25,1824. [Phil. Trans. 1824, p. 413.] This letter is supplementary to the former one, and contains further observations on the relative periods at which the different fa- milies of testaceous animals appear to have been created, and on the gradual approximation, which may be observed in British strata, from the fossil remains of the oldest formations to the living inhabi- tants of our present land and waters. The author observes, that the dimyairia of the strata between the transition lime and lias have the ligament external, and that internal ligaments were therefore confined to the monomyairia till after the deposition of the lias. In the beds above the lias all the shells are referrible to existing orders of animals, and it is only in the tertiary beds that any of the cirrhipeda or families of naked mollusca have been found. What is generally considered as the beak of a sepia, Mr. Dillwyn refers to the cephalopode animal of an ammonite. Every shell of the tertiary strata, the author observes, may be referred to some existing genus; but though this approximation has thus far proceeded in the London clay, yet its numerous species are now extinct, and it is only in the upper beds of crag that any fossil can be completely identified with a living species. An Account of the Organs of Generation of the Mexican Proteus, called by the Natives Axolotl. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 17, 1824. [Phil. Trans. 1824, p. 419.] The specimens described in this paper were taken in the month of June, in a lake three miles from Mexico, at an elevation of 8000 feet above the level of the sea. The usual temperature of the lake is 600, and they are in such abundance as to form a principal article of food of the peasantry. By the assistance of annexed drawings by Mr. Bauer, Sir Evrerard fully describes the male and female organs of these animals, and is enabled to decide that they are a full grown and perfect tribe. " The attack therefore," says the author, " made upon Mr. John Hunter's sagacity by Mr. Rusconi, in his work sur les Amours des Salamandres Aquatiques, retorts upon himself." An Account of Experiments on the Velocity of Sound, made in Hol- land. By Dr. G. Moll, Professor of Natural Philosophy in the University of Utrecht, and Dr. A. Van Beek. Read March 18, 1824. [Phil. Trans. 1824, p. 424.] After adverting to the difference between the celerity of sound, as deduced by theory and found by experiment; and to Laplace's ex- planation of the cause of tlhat difference, and his corrections of the Newtonian formula,-the authors proceed to consider the influence af</page></plain_text>