<plain_text><page sequence="1">April 7, 1842. WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, Esq., V.P. in the Chair. The following papers were read, viz.? Meteorological Observations, taken in conformity with the Re? port drawn up by the Committee of Physics, including Meteorology, for the guidance of the Antarctic Expedition, as also for the fixed Magnetic Observatories, transmitted to the Society by the Lords Commissioners ofthe Admiralty and the Master-General ofthe Ord- nance, and communicated by the Council, were read ; viz.? 1. " Meteorological Observations taken on board H.M. Ship Ere? bus, for August and September 1841." By Capt. James Clark Ross, R.N., F.R.S., Commander of the Expedition. (Forms 1 and 2.) 2. " Meteorological Observations taken by the Niger Expedition, for May, June and July 1841." 3. " Meteorological Observations taken at the Magnetic Observa? tory, Ross-Bank, Van Diemen's Land, for November and December 1840, and January, February and March 1841." (Forms 1 and 2.) 4. " Meteorological Observations taken at the Magnetic Observa? tory, Cape of Good Hope, for October and November 1841." By F. Eardley Wilmot, Esq., Lieut. in the Royal Artillery. (Forms 1 and 2.) 5. " Meteorological Observations taken at the Magnetic Observa? tory, Toronto, for January, February, March, April and May 1841."</page><page sequence="2">381 ByC.W.Younghusband, Esq., Lieut in the Royal Artillery. (F'orms 1 and 2.) 6. " Of the ultimate distribution of the Air-passages, and of the modes of formation of the Air-cells of the Lungs." By William Addi- son, Esq., F.L.S., Surgeon, Great Malvern. Communicated by R. B. Todd, M.D., F.R.S. After reciting the various opinions which have prevailed among anatomists regarding the manner in which the bronchial tubes ter- minate, whether, as some suppose, by cells having free communica? tion with one another, or, as others maintain, by distinct and sepa? rate cells having no such intercommunication, the author states that having been engaged in investigating, with the aid of the micro? scope, the seat and nature of pulmonary tubercles, he could never discover, in the course of his inquiry, any tubes ending in a cul-de- sac; but, on the contrary, always saw, in every section that he made, air-cells communicating with each other. He concludes from his experiments and observations, that the bronchial tubes, after dividing dichotomously into a multitude of minute branches, which pursue their course in the cellular interstices of the lobules, terminate, in their interior, in branched air-passages, and in air-cells which freely communicate with one another, and have a closed termination at the boundary ofthe lobule. The apertures by which these air-cells open into one another are termed by the author lobular passages: but he states that the air-cells have not an indiscriminate or general inter? communication throughout the interior of a lobule, and that no ana- stomoses occur between the interlobular ramihcations of the bron? chial themselves; each branch pursuing its own independent course to its termination in a closed extremity. Several drawings of the microscopical appearances of injected portions of the lungs accom? pany this paper.</page></plain_text>