<plain_text><page sequence="1">March 26, 1835. WILLIAM THOMAS BRANDE, Esq., Vice-President, in the Chair. &lt;f On the Temperature of some Fishes of the Genus Thunnus." By John Davy, M.D., F.R.S., Assistant Inspector of Army Hospitals. The author had occasion to observe, many years ago, that the Bonito (Thynnus pelamys, Cuv.) had a temperature of 99? of Fahr. when the surrounding medium was80? 5,and that it,therefore, constituted an ex- ception to the generally received rule that fishes are universally cold- blooded. Having foundthatthe gills ofthe commonThunny ofthe Medi? terranean (Thynnus vulgaris, Cuv.) were supplied with nerves of un- usual magnitude, that the heart of this latter fish was very powerful, and that its muscles were of a dark red colour, he was led to conjec? ture that it might, like the Bonito, be also warm-blooded; and this opinion is corroborated by the testimony of several intelligent fisher-</page><page sequence="2">328 men. The author endeavours to extend this analogy to other species of the same family, which, according to the reports of the fishermen of whom he made inquiries, have a high temperature, and in whose internal structure he noticed similar peculiarities as in the Thunny; namely, very large branchial nerves, furnished with ganglia of consi? derable size. In this respect he considers that in these fishes the branchial system of organs makes an approximation to the respiratory apparatus of the Mammalia, and that it probably contributes to the elevation of temperature, resulting from the more energetic respira? tion which he supposes to be exercised by these organs. He, how? ever, thinks it not improbable that these fish may possess means of generating heat peculiar to themselves, and of which at present we have no adequate idea. He conceives that the situation of the kid? neys, of which a considerable portion is even higher than the stomach, and posterior to the gills, and which are of large size, and well sup? plied with nerves and blood-vessels, may possibly act a part in the production of an elevated temperature ; but, on the whole, he is dis- posed to ascribe the greatest share of this effect to the superior mag? nitude of the branchial nerves.</page></plain_text>