<plain_text><page sequence="1">-31 Letter to the Editor An anonymous comment from the Membership Survey said/ among other things, "The feeling that I get since joining AAV...is that members at the helm and officials are too concerned with 'dazzling everyone with their tapdancing1 that they are ignoring the nov ices. Microsurgery is wonderful but let's be sure we all know how to tube feed and what total pro tein results mean....Frankly, I was intimidated by the sound of the San Diego meeting hence did not attend. Three local col leagues interested in avian medi cine in my area felt similarly." I would like to respond to this with my personal opinion. In the early years of pet bird practice, everyone sat in their own corner of the world, struggling with the same problems and not knowing where to turn for help. Now that we have gathered together as AAV, the movement has been in quantum leaps. And, although there is still a lot to learn, communication has opened up between the academic world and the avian practitioner. I realize that one has to "crawl before he can walk, and walk before he can run" and I agree those with a budding inter est in pet bird practice should not be discouraged. However, there are dozens of national and state meetings a round the country each year that at least in part address the concerns of the beginning avian practitioner ? physical exams, use of radiology, interpreting clinical laboratory data, thera peutics, etc. ? and certainly much information is available in popular journals and other publi cations. The recently held Mid Atlantic States Avian Veterinary Meeting had much to offer in the way of basic information, inclu ding four very pertinent wet labs. An entire day of the Jan uary, 1985 Eastern States Veter inary Conference in Orlando will be devoted to beginning tech niques in avian medicine. Our own 1982 AAV Proceedings laid some basic groundwork. A veterin arian would not have to see too many bird patients before he'd have to find a way to tube feed one. Ted Lafeber sees the poten tial for birds comprising one third of every veterinarian's practice in 10 years. Hopefully, by that time, the veterinary schools will take over the re sponsibility of graduating prac titioners qualified in pet bird medicine. On the other hand, there is only one annual AAV meeting each year and it behooves the organi zation to continue to move for ward. If one bases his decision of not attending an AAV annual meet ing solely on what they think to be an "intimidating" program, one is missing one of the most valu able parts of the experience. Where else would you have 200 professionals with the same spe cific interests and goals of improving pet bird medicine in the same hotel ballroom? The opportunities to share and learn from others ? over coffee, lunch, or even cocktails? can provide some enriching knowledge, not to mention lasting friend ships and possible contacts to call on when you get stuck. What may come across as "dazzling everyone with their tapdancing" is actually a new found excitement with the whole avian field, as old ideas and treatments are shattered to make way for almost daily new discov eries. The sense of- stimulation just gets infectious as one wants to share as well as hear from others. Attending an AAV Annual Meeting without any avian know ledge or experience may be a little like jumping on a merry go-round that's already moving ? but go ahead and jump on. You won11 get hurt and you may even have fun and add a whole new stimulating dimension to your practice. Greg J. Harrison, DVM Lake Worth. FT.</page></plain_text>