<plain_text><page sequence="1">497 ter placed under the tongue, is rather above than below that of per- sons of middle age; and this he thinks may be explained by the cir- cumstance, that most of the food used by old persons is expended in administering to the function of respiration. In the third section, on the influence of air of different tempera- tures on animal heat, after alluding to what he had witnessed of the rise and fall of the temperature of man on entering the tropics, and, within the tropics, on descending from a cool mountainous region to a low hot country, he adduces certain observations to show that in this country similar changes of temperature take place in a few hours in breathing the air of buildings artificially heated; and, in confirmation, he describes the results of many observations made on an individual in the very variable climate of Constantinople, where, between March and July, in 1841, the thermometer ranged from 31? to 94?. In the fourth section, he describes the observations which he made to determine the effect of moderate exercise, such as that of walk- ing, on the temperature of the body, tending to prove, that while it promotes the diffusion of temperature and produces its exaltation in the extremities, it augments very little, if at all, the heat of the cen- tral and deep-seated parts. A paper was also in part read, entitled, " On the Thermal Changes accompanying Basic Substitutions." By Thomas Andrews, M.D., M.R.I.A., Professor of Chemistry in the Royal Belfast Institutiong Communicated by M. Faraday, Esq., D.C.L., F.R.S., &amp;c. The author gives an account of a series of experiments which he made on the heat evolved during the mutual reaction of acids and bases upon one another, from which he draws the general conclusion that when the influence of all extraneous circumstances is eliminated from the result, the change of temperature is determined by the na- ture of the base, and not by the acid element of the combination. Hence he deduces the general law that, when one base displaces another from any of its neutral combinations with an acid, the heat evolved or abstracted is always the same, whatever the acid element may be, provided the bases are the same. The base employed in the first set of experiments for displacing others was the hydrate of potash in a state of dilute solution of known strength; this was rapidly mixed, in a suitable apparatus, with an equivalent solution of the salt to be decomposed; the change of temperature which re- sulted was accurately determined, and the due corrections for the influence of the vessels and the specific heats of the solutions and of the precipitates produced, were applied. The experimental results are stated in various tables, from which it appears that the changes of temperature, referred to 1000 parts of water, were, with salts of o0 Lime ..... from - 0-33 to - 0-38 Magnesia . . . - 0'10 ,, - 015 Barytes ,. . . O 0 Strontia . .. ,, 0 O 0</page><page sequence="2">498 0 O Soda . . . from + 0-4 to + 0-14 Ammonia .. ,, + 0*72 ,, + 0'73 Manganese . . , + 104 ,, + 1.15 Proto-salts of iron. , + 1'58 , + 1P63 Zinc . ... , + 1-71 , + 182 Mercury ... , + 181 ,, + 189 Lead . .. ,, + 2*77 , + 2-90 Copper .. ,, + 290 , + 3*18 Silver .. . + 3'90 ,, + 394 Sesquisalts of iron. ,, + 4-25 ,, 4-28 The differences in the results of experiments with different acids, the author observes, are not greater than usually occur in chemical reactions, in consequence of the uncertainty that exists with regard to the accurate proportions of chemical equivalents. He points out various circumstances in experiments of this nature, which tend to affect the results and lead to inaccurate conclusions, if care be not taken to guard against these sources of error. One of the principal of these is the heat which is generally evolved by the separation of a base, or new compound, in a solid form: and the author discusses the influence of this change on the results deduced from his experi- ments. He considers that these experiments sufficiently establish the general principle announced in the beginning of his paper. A supplementary note is added on the determination of the Spe- cific Heat of Fluids. The Society then adjourned over the Christmas recess, to meet again on the 11th of January, 1844. January 11, 1844. The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, President, in the Chair. " An Account of a slight Shock of an Earthquake felt in the Channel Islands." By J. Elliott Hoskins, M.D., F.R.S.: in a Letter to P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S., &amp;c. Communicated by Dr. Roget. The phenomena described in this letter occurred simultaneously in Jersey, Guernsey, Alderney, Serk, Herne, andJethore. On Friday, the 22nd of December, at seven minutes before 4 P.M., a noise resembling a distant thunder-clap was heard; this was immediately followed by sounds as of a railroad carriage rumbling over an irregular metallic surface; it was accompanied by distinct undulatory motion. This again was succeeded by a shock; the whole lasting from 10 to 15 seconds. The barometer was uninfluenced, standing at 30'354: a light wind prevailed, varying from S.S.E. to S.S.W. During the whole of the month the air had been peculiarly still, and the baro- meter uniformly high; the maximum, up to the above date, having been 30*518, the minimum 30'042. The thermometer had ranged throughout the month, from 47? to 52? during the day, and from 45? to 49? during the night,</page></plain_text>