<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 17(1-2): 29-36, 1993 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest STATIS ordinations vs. the Juhász-Nagy models: The predictability of an exploratory tool S. Camiz University of Roma "La Sapienza", via San Francesco a Ripa, 57; 1-00153 Roma, Italy. E-Mail: CAMIZ@ITCASPUR. CASPUR.IT Keywords: Community pattern, Information theory, Multivariate analysis, Plot size, Spatial processes. Abstract: Exploratory analysis, confirmatory analysis, and modeling are treated as a three-step model of research, each step using particular statistical and data analysis tools. Sampling requires different techniques in each step, and the problem of optimal plot size becomes evident at least in the second step. P. Juhász-Nagy's model and the STATIS procedure are described for the analysis of three-way data tables. The ability of the former in detecting optimal plot size of a community is discussed, and the use of STATIS as an exploratory tool for the same purpose is suggested to overcome the problem of large sample size required by Juhász-Nagy's models. 1. Introduction In a recent paper, Camiz and Gergely (1990) com- pared the results of an exploratory data analysis method to the entropy measures derived from Juhász-Nagy's (1976, 1984) model for community structure. This work tested an alternative and faster way for estimating optimal plot size, since too much field work is necessary for the classical Juhász-Nagy model in order to obtain the re- quired information. The promising results sug- gested to deepen the investigation and to ascertain whether or not the method can be effec- tively used in any situation. In this communication, attention is paid to the theoretical and methodological framework in which both methods may be used. 2. A research model A research work in any field, starting from the very beginning to its likely end, can be roughly described as a pathway through three theoretical steps: 1) Exploration phase , in which one defines a frame of reference for his/her work, defines the purpose of research, and on this basis begins the data col- lection. In this phase data are submitted to ex- ploratory data analyses in order to reveal any exist- ing data structure and, in particular, to decide whether or not the research aims are reachable on the basis of the collected data. 2) Knowledge acquisition phase, in which the in- formation obtained in the previous analysis is used to optimize experimental design for clarify- ing relationships among measures and among ob- servations. In this phase, a confirmatory analysis is used in order to figure out the above-mentioned re- lationships: sampling requires particular care in order to allow statistical inference for the reference population, and statistical techniques are used to reveal the significance of relationships detected. 3) Modelling phase , in which a theoretical and for- malized (or mathematical) description of an ob- served phenomenon is given. In this phase, data must be used to test the effectiveness of the model so that the more different the data sets used the wider the application range that can be tested. Simulation , showing the effectiveness of the model to depict the studied phenomenon, as well as forecasting , i.e. the ability of the model to predict the behaviour and the evolution of the phenomenon itself, may be considered in this step.</page><page sequence="2">30 Camiz: STATĪS vs Juhász-Nagy It must be pointed out that this three-step research model, although not always well identifi- able, can be taken into account in order to under- stand the evolution of a whole research field (e.g., community studies, etc.), and of small areas of in- vestigation in a bigger field frame, (e.g., analysing the ecological niche of a plant, the competition between two species, recovery after fire, etc.). In plant community studies, the different research approaches appear to roughly correspond to these three steps in the following way: 1) Typification , where phytosociological tools are usually employed, and a rough estimate of the relationships between syntaxa and ecological fac- tors are established. It may correspond to the ex- ploration phase. 2) Synmorphology, and synecology , where statistical tools may be used to evaluate both the vegetation pattern and the influence of ecological factors on community structure. It may correspond to knowledge acquisition. 3) Competition and succession surveys to explain the studied phenomena, possibly through mathe- matical models. In fact, in each approach the three steps may reappear, corresponding to the progression of a particular study and the whole theoretical knowledge, in a sort of fractal repetition of this scheme at. every scale of the analysis. This scheme may be taken into account as a frame of reference to organize the statistical and data analysis tools to be used correctly in each phase. It is evident then that even the sampling design should take into account the different phases, in order to be tailored accordingly, thus allowing the researcher both to extract from the data the required informa- tion and to extrapolate, when possible. 3. The problem of plot size in vegetation sampling In vegetation studies, sampling procedure re- quires special attention in planning the ex- perimental design, particularly if statistical inference is to be made for the population based on results derived from a sample. Nevertheless, even if no particular conditions are required in descriptive surveys, where no inference is ex- pected, the same care should be taken in order to avoid biased results due to uneffective sampling (cf. Kenkel et al. 1989). The sampling procedures, generally used in the different approaches, seem to be largely depen- dent on the "age" of the approach itself: as the phytosociological approach seems to be the older, phytosociological sampling is rather clearly coded, maybe in a raw although sufficient way for typification purposes. Thus, concepts familiar to phytosociologists like "particularly representative zone [of a landscape]" (free translation from Pig- natti, 1976: 884) where to set a relevé, and "mini- mum area" (cf. Kenkel and Podani, 1991) as an indication for sampling unit size, corresponding to "the smallest possible, relative to the type of vegetation and to the practicability of the enu- meration of such a quadrat size" (Kershaw 1973), are the usual kinds of suggestions a researcher can get for organizing field work. It is evident that for more advanced studies, such as synecological or synmorphological researches, such empirical advice is not sufficient to guaran- tee that samples are adequate to the given pur- pose, for example, to estimate the relative amount of each species in a community. Actually, with such information a further step may be achieved: to establish a balance of abundance of different species in a community, their abundance variation according to ecological gradients or along time, due to competition and succession processes. For these reasons, sampling must be considered an important matter in statistical ecology, and it is perhaps the closest to the ecologists' expertise: it is strange then that, compared to the emphasis given to other tools, scarce attention has been paid to sampling up to now (see Kenkel et al. 1989, for more). Actually, the sampling procedures in synecological studies published so far are generally various, not even homogeneity of treament is found for similar topics. It can be clearly recognized via scanning papers in all issues of Coenoses and Journal of Vegetation Science , how confused are the choices, although most papers investigate relationships among species or communities and environmental gradients, where high accuracy sampling is required. So, in papers where data analysis techniques and their inter- pretation are the main concern, sampling is not mentioned or very poorly treated. In exploratory researches, phytosociological sampling is prevalent, as well as complete grid sampling. When relationships between species and ecologi- cal gradients are to be investigated and more precise estimates are requested, systematic or ran- dom sampling (by circular or square plots) is</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 31 preferred, stratified if necessary. In these cases, randomization is rigorously made, showing the at- tention of researchers to inference needs. If gradients are geographically identifiable, then transects are used, oriented along the gradient it- self. Finally, in dynamic studies permanent plots are generally used and the problem of plot size becomes evident only in this case, as vegetation variation requires plot enlargement. In most considered papers, sampling is usually simply described, in order to allow reproduction of the experiment, but underlying choices, as well as their rationale, are seldom discussed in detail by the authors, and even the randomization needs and size variations are but quoted without further discussion. The poor attention that the deter- mination of an optimal sampling technique has received in plant community studies, apart from the randomness requirements necessary for in- ferential purposes, is probably due to the ex- ploratory nature of the community studies carried on so far. This loss of attention may have low ef- fects in exploratory analyses, such as typification of communities, where the relevé dimension itself is usually considered dependent on the species identification process in the field (Cochran 1977, Kenkel and Podaní 1991). In fact, typification is limited to the collected relevés, and the resulting types can be considered as reference points in a quasi continuum. In the other works, it can be supposed that the generally underlying reference is the minimal area (Goodall 1970, Tüxen 1970). However, Podani (1984a) discusses the process and quotes many comments, for example, the need for extra information in order to define op- timal plot size. In fact, once one wishes to under- stand the details of the species joint association in the sampling units of a community, the dimension of the plots is an independent variable that can ac- tually bias the results of the survey (Juhász-Nagy 1976). The latter assertion can be clearly understood considering two extreme plot sizes: a very small one would reveal but one species presence at a time, thus giving no information on species interaction, whereas a too large plot is likely to contain all the community species, so that different plots would duplicate the same information, once again mean- ingless for the purpose (for illustration, see Podani et al., this volume). It is clear that the more essential the problem the closer the investigation to the mature phases of research. Nevertheless, there are many investiga- tions that can effectively benefit from a better deter- mination of an optimal plot size. Among the few others (Matthews 1978, 1979, Kobayashi 1981), the works of Juhász-Nagy (1963, 1967, 1968, 1976, 1984) and the Hungarian school (Juhász-Nagy and Podani 1983, Podani 1984ab, 1987, Bartha and Horváth 1987, Bartha 1990) seem to be the most interesting to be used in practice, since a detailed theory is developed and computing programs are available based on this theory. 4. The Juhász-Nagy model The Juhász-Nagy model was first developed in an attempt to "consider some tendency concerning compositional and spatial organization [of plant communities]" and to study "the inner structure of plant community stands" (Juhász-Nagy 1966: 270). For this purpose, the influence of plot dimension was taken into account, so that the identification of characteristic areas was the primary target: once defined a territory, and the set L of possible floristic compositions of a community stand (from the presence/absence point of view), those areas are the dimensions of plots, defined as follows: 1) uncertain area, the area where the floristic com- position of plots is relatively most uncertain; 2) certain area, the smallest one where the com- position is most certain. In a parallel way, characteristic areas referring to environmental factors may be defined: 3) environmentally most homogeneous area, and 4) environmentally least homogeneous area, with similar definitions. It is straightforward to rely on entropy measures for the estimate of such areas. In fact, once the probability of the various floristic compositions to be found in plots of particular dimensions is es- timated, it is evident that both uncertain and cer- tain areas correspond, respectively, to the maximum and minimum of this entropy, con- sidered as a function of plot dimension. In fact, such entropy maximum corresponds to the equi- probability of different compositions, that is, the dimension that allows the most diverse composi- tions to be found in the plots. Its minimum is at- tained when only one composition is found: all community species are present in all plots (an- other minimum is reached when only one species is present, but this is of no interest). Based on data tables and entropy measures, many functions may be considered, all highly dependent</page><page sequence="4">32 Camiz: STATĪS vs Juhász-Nagy on the size of the sampled plots. Since most of the considered functions receive an interpretation in community studies context, it is consistent to con- sider their variation according to plot size, since these relationships may be typical of a particular community. If circular plots are sampled around a set of points, considered as plots centers, the table structure, as well as the derived estimates, are then functions of the circular plots radii. These functions are results of a spatial process or señes (Podáni 1984ab, 1992), obtained by choosing ran- domly a set of centers in the study area and then studying the evolution of table structure, as described by the defined functions, when the radius increases. If a reasonable number of centers is sampled (500 centers are considered a minimum by Juhász-Nagy (1967), but Bartha (1990) uses up to 1000 plots), information (entropy) measures may be estimated, and their variation as functions of the plot radius are con- sidered as characteristics of the community. In particular, association capacity of community species and the different pattern as it can be detected by different scale observations, are but two of possible attributes to be revealed in this way. Among the many characteristic functions of the spatial process, as suggested by Juhász-Nagy (1976, 1984) seven must be specially considered. Let Xk be a data table of m species presence/ab- sence in n plots having the k-th radius; let xy¿ be the table generic element of Xk, xy?k = 1 if species j is present in plot with center i and k-th radius, xy,k = 0 otherwise. Let n Vq,k = X.j)k = Xjj,k i=l vq,k = x.j,k = H - X.jfk m Vt,k = Xi.,k = Y Xy,k j = l vt,k = Xi.,k = m - Xi.,k m n x..,k = 2 Xi'k = 2 Xj,k j=l i=l x..,k = mn:x.,k be the table marginals , summarizing the number of relevés where a species is present (absent), the number of species present (absent) in a relevé, and the overall number of presences (absences) respectively. These marginals are called Vq, local valence , (Vq, local invalerne ), Vt, floristic valence , (vt, floristic invalence ), and total valence (in- valence ), respectively. Entropy estimates of both valences and invalences are then defined as: m 1) X..,kňk(Vq) = X..,k 10g2X..,k - V X.j,k 10g2X.j,k j=l _ _ _ m _ _ 2) _ X. ,&gt;kňk(Vq) = _ X. ,)k 10g2 _ X„k - V _ X.j)k 10g2 _ X.j)k 1=1 n 3) x..ikňk(Vt) = X ,ik log2 x„,k - y x¡.,k log2 x¡.&gt;k i=i _ _ _ n _ _ 4) _ X. .&gt;kök(vt) = _ X „k log2 _ x..,k - V _ Xi.,k log2 _ Xi.,k i=i Entropy estimates of valences are monotone in- creasing functions of plot radius, whereas those of invalences are decreasing: jhus, the two points where x^kiVt) = x .,kňk(vq) and x..,kAk(Vq) = x.jkñk(vt) define a characteristic in- terval of spatial scale where maxima of other func- tions may be found. These functions are: 5) the joint entropy estimate of the species detected in the relevés, with the significance of florula diversity, a measure of internal heteroge- neity of a community; if the community is formed by the species A,B,...,M, it is given by 2m nňk = n log2 n - V fj)k log2 fj)k j=i where fj^k is the (relative) frequency of each subset of community species simultaneously present 2«n among the 2m possible florulas, n= V fyk, k as J = i usual referring to the k-th plot radius; 6) the local distinctiveness , a pooled entropy es- timate, sum of the entropy of all species that com- pose the community L, m nfìk(L) = n V ňk(j) 1=1 each one estimating the uncertainty of the event that species j is present in Vq k out of n plots having the k-th radius: nfìkG) = n log2 n - (x j)k log2x.j)k - x.j(k log2 xj(k)</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 33 7) the multiple contingency table information es- timate A, among the m species, with the meaning of species association ability ( association ): it can be shown that it is the difference between local distinctiveness and florula diversity: n îk(A) = nfik(L) - nňk(A,B,...,M). These seven measures, considered as functions of plot size, are characteristic functions of a com- munity, so that they are a tool per se describing community species relationships as well as their variation under the spatial process point of view. It can be the objective of specific researches, aim- ing at describing spatial pattern of plant (or other) communities. Unfortunately, the results can be highly biased if a small number of plots is taken into account, so that an enormous amount of plots is supposed to be collected (500-1000 centers are generally considered a suitable sam- pling), only for evaluating the characteristic func- tions and areas of a community. This extremely large number of relevés makes quite difficult its use. As alternatives to the correct sampling, required for a correct estimate of entropy values, methods were developed aiming at simulating spatial processes from transect or random walk sam- plings (Podani 1984b, Bartha and Horváth 1987, Bartha 1990, Szollát and Bartha 1991). Their idea consists in a random walk in an area or a transect through it, based on very small plots, then in the random choice of some plots as centers of a spa- tial process, that is simulated by aggregating neighbour plots to those chosen as centers, thus creating larger plots. The results of this simula- tion (Szollát and Bartha 1991) are interesting, al- beit discrepancies result compared to the true model: nevertheless, such technique may be a valid alternative when the Juhász-Nagy technique is too time-demanding. 5. The Juhász-Nagy model and the optimal plot size The spatial process is a descriptive model for the community and may be employed fç&gt;r many pur- poses. In particular, its use fpr the detection of the optimal plot size for a survey in a particular community is tempting. Referring to the charac- teristic interval as previously defined, Juhász- Nagy states that "the search for such a maximum interval (as a characteristic interval) is perhaps the simplest way of indicating the size-classes within which a reasonable survey sampling can be taken" (1984: 377), and Juhász-Nagy and Podani (1983) add that optimal plot sizes are those falling in particular between florula diversity and asso- ciatum maxima. The idea of using the Juhász-Nagy model as a tool for detection of optimal plot size for community studies is a very strong answer to the quest for overcoming both phytosociological sampling and minimal area reference. The drawback is actually represented by the too large amount of plots to be sampled, so that it seems difficult to use these results for subsequent surveys, since they appear more investigation tools or means of comparisons among communities than operational instruments. The simulated process may be an alternative, provided that data collected along the random walk or the transect may be used for the rest of the subse- quent investigation, since again it would be too heavy to perform a second sampling, once the op- timal plot size is estimated in this way. 6. The STATIS procedure The STATIS technique was first proposed by Es- coufier (1973) and furthermore developed by Glaçon (1981), Foucart (1983) and Lavit (1988): it is a three-way multivariate technique, able of analyzing simultaneously different data tables based on the same units, so that it can show the evolution of the different tables due to the third dimension effects. Although this dimension is usually time, STATIS was used successfully by Camiz and Gergely (1990) using plot size as the third dimension. The interest of STATIS technique is its ability to compare the different data tables as a whole, con- sidered as different studies to be represented as points in a Euclidean space, and to derive a mean (a compromise study) to project on suitable Euclidean spaces both variables and units, as they are seen by the different studies, thus allowing an actual representation of the evolution of both variables and units due to the third dimension that distinguishes the studies themselves. The STATIS technique is based on a similarity measure among cases in each data table Xk, k = 1...K (each study, in Escoufieťs terms), all con- cerning the same cases. Given a case weights diagonal matrix D (usually the identity matrix, the same for every study), and centered variables weights diagonal matrices Mk, usually defined as</page><page sequence="6">34 Camiz: STATĪS vs Juhász-Nagy 1 mii,k-^2 n»ij,k=0 i*j where aļ is the variance of variable k, the semi- definite positive similarity matrix is defined as Wk = XkMkX'k From Wk, operators WkD result that are com- parable, since the cases are the same all over the studies. As a resemblance measure among operators COW (WkD, WhD) = tr (WkD, WhD) or tr(WkD,WhD) v R V(WkD,WhD) = tr(WkD,WhD) v 2 2 V» [tr(WkD) tr(WhD) ] may be considered, giving a scalar products matrix C that corresponds to either variance-covariance or correlation matrices among variables in the or- dinary statistics. The eigenanalysis of matrix C al- lows a representation of studies on eigenvectors similar to ordinary principal components analysis, the studies coordinates being the components of eigenvectors normalized to corresponding eigen- values. This analysis, named interstructure by Escoufier, allows a representation of the studies on planes, as well as an overall comparison. Since both rows and columns may be centered, i.e. the matrix C* = (I -1 l'P) C (I - P 1 1') may be used in place of C, where I is the identity matrix, 1' = (1,1,...,1) and P is the matrix of studies weights (usually I), a centered representa- tion may be obtained, where distances among studies are the same as the non-centered representation. In addition, since the C elements are all non-negative, Frobenius theorem ensures that the first largest eigenvector components have the same sign, that can be chosen positive, and let a' = (ai...ak) be the first standardized C eigen- vector, a' a = 1. The matrix WD, where K W = TakWk k=l is semi-definite positive, since it is a linear com- bination of WkD all positive semi-definite matrices: it is called compromise matrix and its norm being the first largest eigenvalue, it sum- marizes most of WkD. It is by means of the compromise matrix that all variables and the cases, as they are seen by each study, can be simultaneously represented in what is called infrastructure. Let us consider the metric matrix of pooled variables M, as composed by akMk: in principal components analysis of WD, with metric M, let A be the diagonal matrix of eigenvalues of WD in decreasing order, and Y the matrix whose columns are the corresponding eigenvectors, normalized by A. Here, a simul- taneous representation of all variables is given by X* D Y A 1/2 and individual trajectories through the studies are given by the columns of Wk D Y A 1/2 , k=l,...,K. With STATIS many results may be derived: when time is the third dimension, the time-pattern of studies along the interstructure axes may be inter- preted on the basis of the meaning of the axes themselves, as it may be derived from the different studies known characteristics. The interpretation of intrastructure axes (i.e. the axes of compromise matrix principal components analysis) may be derived from the whole set of variables, as they are correlated with the eigenvectors; if the vari- ables are the same in all studies, it is likely that they have different correlations with the eigen- values according to the different studies, i.e. the corresponding time: this as well may be used for the interpretation of axes. Finally, trajectories of observations along time are interpretable accord- ing to axes meaning, thus showing the evolution of an observation along time. 7. The spatial process as described by the STATIS procedure If the three-way matrix to be studied through STATIS is derived from a spatial process, similar considerations may be done, so that it seems an exploratory method suitable for the analysis of spatial processes. Actually, through STATIS, data tables Xk may be represented on interstructure axes, and their evolution due to the spatial process may be shown on both axes and planes; in addition, the intrastructure analysis may be used to get a deeper insight on data structures. An attempt to use STATIS on spatial process data was performed by Camiz and Gergely (1990, see</page><page sequence="7">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 35 also Camiz 1990) with promising results: on the planes of the first two eigenvectors of both non centred and centred interstructure analysis, the spatial process, as overall described by the K data tables was clearly and simply identifiable. In addi- tion, in compromise analysis each plot's diversity evolution was described by trajectories, the posi- tion of species on planes helping in giving reason of different plot's evolution. 8. The use of STATIS for optimal plot size detection By comparison of Juhász-Nagy characteristic in- terval and functions on two different data sets and the corresponding results of STATIS procedure, Camiz and Gergely (1990) found the position of optimal plot size on the first two factors of inter- structure, as the one with the highest first two coordinates, i.e. both first and second axes con- curred to its definition. An analogous suggestion comes from centered analysis, where optimal plot size is about in the same position, opposite to the extremely small and large plots, that are set at the extreme of the third quadrant. In addition, most diverse spatial dimensions of each considered plot are farther from the intersection of axes in in- frastructure analysis. The constancy of results in two data sets, one describing a complete spatial process, and the other starting with plots maybe larger than the optimal size, seems promising for considering the procedure suitable for an ex- ploratory analysis, where characteristic interval and characteristic functions maxima are to be identified. It is to be taken into account that the results of Camiz and Gergely (1990) derive from a spatial process limited to the ten most abundant species observed on ten centers, considering 16 or 20 spa- tial steps: a data set tremendously smaller than usually necessary. Then, it is evident that for detecting optimal plot size for a subsequent sur- vey in community studies, a procedure based on STATIS may be defined as follows: 1) define the domain in the territory of the community to be studied; 2) select, with any random method, i = 10 to 20 centers; 3) define around k = 20 radius dimensions, securing that the extremes are "extreme enough", say that in the smallest plots only one species is present, and in the big- gest all (or nearly all) community species are present; 4) build k data tables of the j = 10 to 15 most frequent species presence in i plots; 5) submit the k data tables to STATIS procedure; 6) identify the plot radius opposed to both maximum and minimum on the plane of the first two axes of centred interstructure analysis, as well as that having the highest two coordinates in non- centred analysis; 7) verify the choice in intrastructure analysis, through each plot's most diverse dimension, corresponding to the one farthest from the origin; 8) use the radius detected as the optimal plot size for a survey in the community. It is simple and quick to perform such a procedure, since the most time-demanding step, sampling, is limited to the identification of species in plots. Increasing plot size requires only to add new species to the previous data matrix: a task quite easy to achieve. In case of random walk or transect samplings, the data set may be extracted a posteriori, through a spatial process in com- puterized simulation (Podani 1987), provided that the elementary plots are small enough to cover most of the plot size range in this way. It is barely necessary to add that, in succession studies based on permanent plots, this procedure may be used as a simple validation test of the cur- rent plot size: once it is far from the optima, a new plot size is to be chosen. 9. Conclusions The identification of optimal plot size for a survey has been seldom considered in detail in com- munity studies, due to both the pioneer stage of investigation and to the difficulty to detect a simple technique to achieve this target. The Juhász-Nagy model may be considered suitable for this purpose, but it requires intensive prelimi- nary field work which may be the objective of the main research rather than an operational tool. Yet, techniques based on this model may provide good answer, in particular those able to estimate Juhász-Nagy functions in a simple way. Based on the three-step model discussed in this paper, one may view the discussed methods as: 1) STATIS procedure on a simplified spatial process, as an exploratory method, at least useful for identifying optimal plot size and some other community characteristics (Camiz and Gergely 1990). 2) Evaluation of characteristic functions, based on data obtained by computerized simulation of spa- tial process from transect or random walk (Podani 1987, Bartha and Horváth 1987), as a confir- matory method estimating the requested func- tions more precisely.</page><page sequence="8">36 Camiz: STATĪS vs Juhász-Nagy 3) Evaluation of characteristic functions, based on an actual spatial process in the field. It is the true model. The use of maps as suggested by Podani (1984b) is likely to easen data collection, without significant bias of the results. The proposed procedure based on STATIS may be strongly suggested for determining optimal plot size if other pilot study is done in order to en- sure its estimated adequacy. In addition, the ability to depict other information not discussed in detail by Camiz and Gergely (1990) should be investigated, based on the new software version (Lavit 1989), where the analysis may be based on species as well as on relevés: a possibility that may receive more attention in the future. References Bartha, S. 1990. Spatial processes in developing plant com- munities: pattern formation detected using information theory. In: Krahulec F., Agnew A.D.Q. and Willems J.H. (eds.): Spatial processes in plant communities. Academia Prague, Proceedings of the workshop held in Liblice, 18-22 Sept. 1989. pp. 31-47. Bartha, S. and F. Horváth. 1987. Application of long transects and information theoretical functions to pattern detection. I. Hansects versus isodiametric sampling units. Abstracta Botanica 11: 9-26. Camiz, S. 1990. La procedura STATIS per l'analisi esplorativa di un processo spaziale di comunità vegetali. Atti delle Giornate di studio - Pescara, 11-12 ottobre 1990, Società Italiana di Statistica ed Università degli studi "G. D'- Annunzio", Dipartimento di Metodi quantitativi e teoria economica, Pescara, pp. 327-339. Camiz, S. and A Gergely. 1990. An exploratory method for detecting optimal plot size in plant community studies. Abstracta Botanica 14: 83-108. Cochran, W. G. 1977. Sampling techniques. 3rd ed., Wiley, New York. Escoufier, Y. 1973. Le traitement des variables vectorielles. Biometrics 29: 751-760. Foucart, T. 1983. Une nouvelle approche de la méthode STATIS. Revue de Statistique Appliquée, 31(2): 61-75. Glaçon, F. 1981. Analyse conjointe de plusieurs matrices de données. Thèse de III cycle, Université de Grenoble. Goodall, D. W. 1970. Statistical plant ecology. Ann. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 1: 99-124. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1963. Investigations on the Bulgarian vegeta- tion. Some hygrophylous plant communities, (I-III). Acta Biologica Debrecina 2: 47-70. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1967. On some «characteristic areas» of plant community stands. Proceedings of Colloquium on Infor- mation Theory, Bolyai Mathematical Society, Debrecen, pp. 269-282. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1968. Über die Zusammenhänge zwischen dem Parameter-präservierungsvermögen und der Resistenz bei Pflanzenassoziationen. Vorträge der II. Ungarischen Biometrischen Konferenz, Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest, pp. 365-367. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1976. Spatial dependence of plant populations. Part I: Equivalence analysis (an outline for a new model). Acta Bot. Acad. Sci. Hung. 22: 61-78. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1984. Spatial dependence of plant populations. Part 2: A family of new models. Acta Bot. Hung. 30: 363- 402. Juhász-Nagy, P. and J. Podani. 1983. Information theory methods for the study of spatial processes and succession. Vegetatio 51: 129-140. Kenkel, N. C., P. Juhász-Nagy and J. Podani. 1989. On sam- pling procedures in population and community ecology. Vegetatio 83:195-207. Kenkel, N.C. and J. Podani. 1991. Plot size and estimation ef- ficiency in plant community studies. Journal of Vegetation Science 2: 539-544. Kershaw, K.A. 1973. Quantitative and dynamic plant ecology. Edward Arnold, London. Kobayashi, S. 1981. Diversity indices relations to sample size and spatial distribution. Japanese Journal of Ecology 31: 231-236. Lavit, C. 1988. Analyse conjointe de plusieurs matrices. Mas- son, Paris. Lavit, C. 1989. ACT Méthode STATIS. Cisia, Paris. Matthews, J. A. 1978. An application of non-metric multi- dimensional scaling to the construction of an improved species plexus. J. Ecol. 66: 157-173. Matthews, J. A 1979. A study of the variability of some succes- sional and climax plant assemblage types using multiple discriminant analysis. J. Ecol. 67: 255-271 . Pignatti, A. 1976. Geobotanica. In: C. Cappelletti (ed.), Trat- tato di Botanica. UTET, Torino, vol. II: 801-997. Podani, J. 1984a. Spatial processes in the analysis of vegeta- tion: theoiy and review. Acta Bot. Hung. 30: 75-118. Podani, J. 1984b. Analysis of mapped and simulated vegetation pattern by means of computerized sampling techniques. Acta Bot. Hung. 30: 403-425. Podani, J. 1987. Computerized sampling in vegetation studies. Coenoses 2: 9-18. Podani, J. 1992. Space series analysis of vegetation: processes reconsidered. Abstracta Botanica 16:25-29. Szollát, G. and S. Bartha. 1991. Pattern analysis of dolomite grassland communities using information theoiy models. Abstracta Botanica 15: 47-60. Tlixen, R. 1970. Bibliographie zum Problem des Minimum- Areals und der Art-Areal Kurve. Excerpta Botanica, Sect. B, 10: 291-314.</page></plain_text>