<plain_text><page sequence="1">-11 HUSBANDRY IME 433 . . CONTAMINATED SEED Case #1: A client recently purchased millet spray from a re tailer and fed it to his birds. Eighteen hours later, all five birds (budgies, finch, cockatiel) died. No gross or cytological lesions were found (histopathology not done). The millet had a fine powdery coating which was found to be mycelial elements under the microscope. Culture of the millet on SAB-DEX agar yielded exuberant growth of Aspergillus sp. Several other control samples of millet spray were negative. Subsequent millet submitted by the retailer was also positive for Aspergillus sp. Case #2: A cockatiel was presented with a history of CNS signs and slight depression over a period of three days. The owner re ported "seizures" which were described as loss of awareness with body tremors. Physical examination found the bird in good weight and feather, no respiratory signs, and abnormally dark feces. The hemogram was normal. A fecal direct smear was negative for Giardia, but was loaded with mycelial and fruiting body forms of an unidentified fungus. A fecal culture was taken and the bird started on oral chloramphenicol palmitate (Chloionycetin palmitate - Parke Davis) and oral nystatin (Mycostatin suspension - Squibb). The bird improved markedly over the following 48 hours with home treatment and change of seed. Results of the fecal culture showed large numbers of Enterobacter sp. and Mucor sp. Available (pre-ketoconazole) literature suggested amphotericin therapy. Ketoconazole (Nizoral - Janssen) without known effect against Mucor was substituted. The bird is now clini cally normal. Subsequent culture of the birdfs "Cockatiel Mix" yielded large numbers of Mucor sp. Comment: Seeds are commonly "contaminated" with apparently harmless soil organisms. Improper storage, handling or animal contamination (rodents) can predispose seed to high counts of Pseudomonas, coliform, Yersinia and fungal agents. Routine avian microbiological techniques can serve as a qualitative screen of seed samples, while some State and commerical labs can assay for mycotoxins (Aspergillus flavus, etc.) Recurrent patterns of infections, acute mortality when changing feed, questionable feed storage tech niques, and characteristic liver histopathology (for mycotoxicosis) should alert the clinician to possible feed problems. ? Alan M. Fudge, D.V.M. Sacramento, CA IME 434 . . CONTAMINATION OF DOG FOOD FED TO BIRDS A client with a large mixed collection of birds suddently started losing lories and conures after short term bloody diarrhea; larger species (macaws and cocka toos) were also showing signs of illness. A red lory with severe clini cal signs was sacrificed and ne cropsied at the lab. We had been informed that the owners had just started feeding a different brand of dog food the day before the losses started, so as a matter of epidemiological concern, the food was brought in for culture as well. Immediate gram stains of impression smears of the liver of the sacrificed bird revealed large numbers of gram positive organisms that were characteris tic of the morphology of Clos tridium sp. Cultures from the dead bird and the dog food were later identified as Clostridium perfringens. In addition, Sal monella enteritidis was also isolated from both (consistent biochemical profiles). The remaining birds were treated</page><page sequence="2">-12 with chloramphenicol palmitate in a tube feeding formula and the losses stopped. In the meantime, the owner's daughter and the family dogs got sick, Salmonella was isolated and appropriate treatment was instituted. A fresh unopened bag of the same brand of dog food was brought to the lab for evaluation, however we were unable to reproduce the isolations. However, a fellow aviculturist in another Florida city had also suffered recurring losses with Salmonella incrimination (and repeated treatment), and had been feeding the same brand of dog food to his birds. These results were reported to the President of the company who had not been getting any other complaints about the food. Of course, it's not intended to be fed to birds. Dogs can tolerate Clostridium and would probably manifest a very low grade type of enteritis from this, but Salmonella cannot be allowed in any food product. Since the entire production of the pellets is mechanized, it was hard to come up with a possible portal of entry of the organisms. However, in one conversation, it was revealed that animal fat was sprayed on the already formed pellets before packaging. It is our opinion that the Salmonella was not the causative agent of the losses in the aviary, but the combination with the Clostridium was lethal. The FDA is investigating this case. ? Don Harris, D.V.M. Miami, FL John Pisani, M.S. Micrim Labs IME 435 . . ENVIRONMENTAL SOURCES OF GRAM NEGATIVE BACTERIA IN AN EXOTIC BIRD FARM (From Proceedings of Jean Delacour/IFCB Symposium on Breeding Birds in Captivity) Bacteria are a significant cause of disease in exotic birds. Usually these diseases are transmitted directly from an infected bird to a susceptible cagemate but on occasion other sources of bacteria within en aviary may become important causes of diseases. Non pathogenic strains of these organisms exist in the environment but under certain conditions harmful strains may become established in the food, water and air supplies. More than 100 environmental samples were cultured to identify the incidence of gram negative bacteria present in various areas. A few brief examples are pre sented here: Exotic birds do not always eat fresh fruits and vegetables im mediately after they're offered and unless the aviary is frequently cleaned, food that falls to the floor may be eaten some days later. Fresh food had relatively low numbers of bacteria, but after holding the food samples for 24 and 48 hours, growth of Pseudomonas greatly increased. Spilled food in the aviary, contaminated by the birds' droppings, might support even greater growth of potential pathogens. Bacterial contamination of commercially manufactured foods, such as dog kibble and monkey biscuit, may vary widely depending upon quality control by the manufacturer and the species of animal for which the food is intended. We cultured samples from two fresh bags of chicken scratch and found significant numbers of Klebsiella and Pseudomonas organisms in one bag. This may suggest that some products marketed for poultry are not suitable for use in exotic birds. Dog kibble and monkey biscuit we cultured were remarkably</page><page sequence="3">-13 free of gram negative contaminants. Management techniques can decrease the risk of food contamin ation. Special care should be extended to clean the utensils and appliances used for preparing food. Enterobacter, Pseudomonas and E. coli were the most common gram negative organisms recovered from various appliances, knives, spoons, cutting boards and food prep aration counters. An outbreak of Pseudomonas enteritis in Society finches was traced to a blender used to prepare an egg-based nestling food fed to the birds. The blender assembly was cleaned with detergent daily but still harbored Pseudomonas under a gasket sealing the blades. It was necessary to dismantle, scrub and disin fect each component of the assembly to insure clean food. Once this was done the enteritis disappeared without antibiotic treatment. It is possible for bacteria to grow in water in sufficient numbers to cause disease. Pseudomonas is the most significant water contaminant in our experience and was especially common in water samples from garden hoses and plumbing systems using PVC pipe. Inhalation is a common route of infection. When fecal matter and other debris dries, small particles may be aerosolized and inhaled by the bird. Numerous bacteria may be spread this way. Regular cleaning and reducing dust will decrease transmission; it is especially important to practice strict hygiene after a disease outbreak to prevent recurrence. Environmental sources of disease-causing bacteria should be investigated when birds fail to respond to treatment, when birds are placed under inordinate stress and when hygiene breaks down. ? Keven Flammer, D.V.M. Lvnne Drewes. M.T. CASCP)</page></plain_text>