<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 10: 1-16, 1986 THE RELATIONSHIP BETWEEN THE TRANSPIRATION AND PHOTOSYNTHESIS OF XEROPHYTIC GRASSES László ALMÁDI1, Edit KOVÁCS-LÁNG2 , Rózsa MÉSZÂROS-DRASKOVITS2 and Tibor KALAPOS2 1 Department of Botany, Agricultural University, Keszthely, H-8361 2 Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, L. Eötvös University, Budapest, Kun B. tér, H-1083 The water status, transpiration, and CC&gt;2 fixation in the leaves of Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca were measured to- gether with environmental variables (air temperature, relative air humidity, soil moisture, and illumination).. Regarding trans- piration, relative transpiration and CC^ fixation, the leaves of Koeleria glauca were more active than those of Festuca glauca, both in spring and in summer. The transpiration and fixation rates of these species became lower by summer. Relatively low water saturation deficit values were obtained during the whole growing season. Transpiration and CC^ fixation rates reached their maxima in the morning hours in summer, and about noon in spring . The results suggest that water use regulation is different in the two drought-tolerant species. Koeleria glauca transfers and contains more water in the leaves, and is more sensitive to changes in soil moisture and relative air humidity than Festuca vaginata. The latter species has a strictly regulated, moderate type of water utilization. There is no difference between the species regarding the transpiratory and CC^ fixation rates, if the results are related to the whole phytomass (above- and underground parts). The species have adapted to dry habitats in different ways: the photosynthesis of Festuca vaginata is of the type, whereas Koeleria glauca has vesicUlar-arbuscular mycorrhizae in its roots. INTRODUCTION One of the main objectives in our research project is to study the volume and intensity of nutrient cycles and water transfer in natural and slightly disturbed vegetation types, particularly grasslands, in the Kiskunság National Park, Hungary.</page><page sequence="2">2 In the past few years, three different processes were stu died in situ in stands of a dry grassland community ( Festucetum vaginatae danubiale ) in the Bugac Biosphere Reserve. These are: - atmospheric CO2 exchange of plants, - water status and movement in the soil - plant - atmosphere continuum, and - dynamics of the soil solution nutrient budget in the rhizo- sphere . We aimed to determine the role of two dominant species, Festuca vaginata and Koel eria glauca , of the community in nutrient and water cycles. We compared the performance of the two species at the population and community levels. In this community type, the given physiological character- istics of plants are adaptive strategies in response to stress situations , caused mainly by climatic and edaphic effects (Grime 1979). In the dry perennial grassland community, stress- tolerant strategies (S-strategy) have developed, mainly as a result of summer drought. This renders the study of the water cycle very important. In Hungary, the first modern study of water cycles in wa- ter-stressed habitats was carried out by Stocker (1933). He found that different species, Artemisia monogyna and Statice gmelini , of the same habitat had different adaptive strategies under similar stress conditions. Květ and Rychnovská (1965) gave some preliminary information on the regulation of water use of some sandy grassland plants, including Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca. They studied the water-loss and resatura- tion of previously saturated leaves under controlled conditions during summer drought. The water use characteristics of some species in water stressed open grassland communities on dolo- mite bedrock were studied by Almádi (1982, 1984). His results enable us to compare the species of dolomite and sandy grass- land communities.</page><page sequence="3">3 STUDY AREA The study area is located in the middle of Hungary (lati- tude 46° N, longitude 19° E), near Bugac, in the region of "Duna-Tisza Köze11 at an elevation of 120 m. The Kiskunság Na- tional Park was founded to preserve the typical forests, lakes, sandy grasslands, and salt meadows of the Duna-Tisza Köze. The limy, coarse, silicic sand covering the area is a young (Pleis- tocene) deposit of the Danube river, from which wind erosion has formed a dune land. The soil of the area is a slightly humic sandy soil, being in the initial phase of its development. The climate has a slight continental character. The mean annual temperature is 11 °C, the mean annual precipitation is about 500 mm. In the summer, extremely hot and dry periods are common. Field measurements were carried out to describe the microclimate of the area. Microclimate Air temperature, as measured near the grass tufts, is about 5 °C in the morning (8-9 a.m.) and 15-20 °C at noon in April. In summer, it increases from 10 °C (at 6 a. m. ) to over 30 °C by noon. Relative air humidity averages between 60 and 70% during the growing season, but at noon on summer days it can be as low as 30-40%. Between 9 a.m. and 7 p.m. in spring, soil temperature in the rhizosphere of the two species ranges from 10 to 15 °C, whereas in summer it is between 20 and 29 °C. The rhizosphere of Koeleria glauca tufts is always warmer than that of Festuca vaginata, the difference being several centigrades. Very low soil moisture content was measured in the rhizosphere of both species between late April and September. The values range from 0.6 to 1.9% of weight. Even in early spring, soil moisture content hardly exceeds 4%. By contrast, in summer the soil moisture content at the same depth under bare patches of sandy soil ranges from 1.9 to 5.5%. In spring, there is suffi- cient water supply even for plants that have their roots in the uppermost soil layer. On the other hand, water stress is strong during the summer.</page><page sequence="4">4 Vegetation The perennial grassland community ( Festucetum vaginatae daniib ia 1 e) represents a natural successional stage. The dominant species of the community are grasses and sedges, namely Festuca vaginata, Koel eria glauca , Carex liparicarpos and Carex steno- phylla. Other important monocots and dicots in the community are Potent illa arenaria , Colchicum arenarium, Gypsophi la arena- ria and Iris flavissima var. arenaria . Lichens ( Cladonia , Parme- lia and D ip 1 osch i st es species) are locally very common. METHODS Transpiration was measured as the weight loss of cut leaves (Stocker 1956, Slavik 1974). Portable torsional balance with 0.1 mg accuracy was used. After the first weighing, the leaves were exposed for 2 minutes in their original position. Three parallel measurements were taken. Each sample contained three leaves. The results given below are the means of three measure- ments. The change in transpiration caused by the cutting itself was checked by extra measurements generally taken in the odd hours of the day. To characterize the water status of the cut leaves, water saturation deficit (WSD) was calculated according to: WSD = saturated weight - initial weight x saturated weight - dry weight Preliminary studies suggested that the appropriate duration for saturating the leaves in dark moist-chamber is 12 hours. Temperature and relative air humidity were measured using an ASSMAN Psychrometer. To determine evaporation, previously satu- rated and weighed green filter paper circles with a diameter of 3 cm were horizontally exposed for 2 minutes. Mass CO2 fixation was measured using the radiocarbon method in the field at the actual temperature, relative air humidity, illumination and wind velocity (Šesták et al. 1971). The glass chamber of the portable instrument was filled with air contain-</page><page sequence="5">5 ing 1% CC&gt;2 with 0.5 mCi/min radioactivity. The three-cm-long pieces cut from the upper third of the leaves were immediately enclosed into this chamber for 2 minutes. After the exposure, they were fixed by heat at once. The radioactivity of the samples was determined by Beckman scintillometer in the isotope labora- tory of the L. Eötvös University. The results are given in terms of fixed CO2 per dry weight. Illumination was measured by a PU 150 photometer. Chamber atmospheric and leaf surface tempera- ture was measured by a thermometer containing a 4MTH type ter- mistor . In 1984 and 1985, measurements on the two species were taken simultaneously. Since the leaves were collected from diffe- rent individuals of the same population (4-12 leaves in each sample), the results can be applied to the population level. Soil moisture content was measured by gravimetry. In each day of data collection, soil samples, each consisting of 3-6 units, were taken from the rhizosphere of the tufts of both species. Samples from bare patches were used as control. Different leaf indices were obtained based on the measure- ments (cf. Almádi 1985). These are: 2 ^ _ .e Surface area (dm ) , Specific ^ leaf _ .e area = Leaf fresh weight (g) = SLA , Degree of succulence = Water content (q.) 2 Surface area expressed in dm Index of sclerophyllia ^ 2 = Dry weight (g) ^ 2 Surface area (dm ) These parameters may give us some information on how well the species are adapted to drought. Table 1 shows that, per unit weight, Festuca vaginata leaves have greater surface than Koe- leria glauca. The latter species contains more water in the leaves than Festuca vaginata per unit surface.</page><page sequence="6">6 Table 1. Leaf indices of Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca Specific Degree of Index of leaf area succulence schlerophilly Festuca vaginata April 27, 1985 0.79 0.87 0.46 July 7, 1985 0.74 0.72 0.61 Koeleria glauca April 27, 1985 0.51 1.38 0.60 July 7, 1985 0.51 1.24 0.75 RESULTS AND THEIR DISCUSSION The data on the transpiration, the water status of the leaves, the diurnal and seasonal changes of WSD values enable us to eva- luate the role of the species studied in the nutrient and water cycles. We can also determine the type of their adaptation and the regulation of their water use. As Figure 1 shows, on a spring day (April 27, 1985) the diurnal pattern of the transpi- ration rate of Festuca vaginata had two maxima (at 10 a.m. and 2 2 p.m.). The maximum rate was 16 mg H20/dm -min, which corres- ponds to 33 mg ř^O/g-min per unit dry weight. The daily (from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.) sum of transpired water was 6.63 g. On a summer day (July 3, 1985), the observed diurnal pattern, the maximum rates and the daily sum of transpiration were nearly the same as in spring (Fig. 2). The relative transpiration (transpiration per evaporation) of Festuca vaginata is quite low. In spring, its maximum was 40% (at 10 a.m.), whereas in summer the maximum value of 25% was measured at 7 a.m. The relative transpiration calculated on the basis of the daily transpiration decreased from 25 to 12% during the growth season. The water saturation deficit (WSD) values of the leaves were generally low, they did not exceed 5% even in summer</page><page sequence="7">7 Fig. 1. Diurnal changes in transpiration and evaporation 2 (mg í^O/dm .min), air temperature (°C) and relative air humid- ity (%) in Bugac on April 27, 1985</page><page sequence="8">8 Fig. 2. Diurnal changes in transpiration and evaporation (mg 2 I^O/dm -min), air temperature (°C), and relative air humidity (%) in Bugac on July 3, 1985</page><page sequence="9">9 (Fig. 3). The transpiration rate of Koeleria was always higher than that of Festuca. In spring, the daily sum of transpired 2 water was 15.81 g/dm (Fig. 1 ). The diurnal pattern showed remarkable fluctuations and had a high peak at noon and a small- er one in the afternoon. The maximum rate of transpiration was 2 42 mg H^O/dm -min, which corresponds to 70 mg î^O/g.min for dry weight. In summer, the daily amount of transpired water de- 2 creased to 11.86 g H^O/dm . The maximum of the transpiration rate shifted from noon to the morning hours, and it was 34 2 mg H^O/dm .min. The diurnal pattern was not as smooth as that of Festuca. The relative transpiration of Koeleria was 94% and 87% in spring and summer, respectively. Similarly to Festuca, Fig. 3. Water saturation deficit (WSD) values of Festuca vagi- nata and Koeleria glauca in spring and summer</page><page sequence="10">10 Table 2. Maximum daily intensity and daily amount of CC^ fixation of Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca in 1984 and 1985 April April May May June July July July Nov. 11 27 4 15 19 3 4 31 4 Festuca paginata daily maximum (mg C02/g . h) 11.5 4.3 8.9 9.7 1.2 2.5 2.3 2.7 1.8 daily amount (mg CO^/g. day ) 81 18 54 57 7 11 18 10 12 Koeleria glauca daily maximum 24.7 - 16.4 14.8 5.2 5.2 14.8 10.7 13.7 daily amount 186 - 67 105 19 21 122 50 74 the daily maximum shifted from noon to the morning hours by early summer. Koeleria had low WSD values, falling between 0 and 7% in spring as well as in summer. The daily changes were greater in summer than in spring (Fig. 3). The photosynthetic rates for both species are in agree- ment with the transpiration. Koeleria had always higher photo- synthetic rate than Festuca, and both rates decreased in summer. Table 2 shows the daily amounts and maximum rates of CC&gt;2 fixa- tion for both species. In spring, Koeleria fixed as much as 186 mg C02/g a day, whereas Festuca did only less than half -of it (81 mg CC^/g.day) . Correspondingly, the maximum rates of photo- synthesis were 24.7 and 11.5 mg CC^/g.hour for Koeleria and Festuca, respectively. Such intensive C02 fixation could be ob- served on fine spring days when, according to our measurements made at noon, air temperature was between 20 and 25 °C, illumi- nation was between 50 and 60 klux and soil moisture content did not fall below 3-4%. Thus, the plants under these conditions could have sufficient water supply.</page><page sequence="11">11 In summer, Festuca had low photosynthetic activity. The daily sum of fixed CC^ ranged from 7 to 18 mg/g, and the maximum pho- tosynthetic rate was only 1.2-2.5 mg CC^/g.h. The same values for Koeleria had greater variance but they also decreased by summer . In summer, the air temperature often exceeds 30 °C at noon, the relative air humidity may fall below 40% and the light intensity is between 70 and 80 klux. The soil moisture content may often be as low as 1%, which corresponds to 4.0 MPa, or an even lower water potential, causing great difficulties in the water uptake of plants. This is why in the course of the year both species have changing diurnal patterns of photosynthetic activity. The same was observed in arid regions (Schulze et al, 1975). In spring, photosynthesis has its maximum rate at noon, whereas in summer the maximum occurs in the morning hours (Ko- vács-Lang and Mészáros-Draskovits 1985). It is worth mentioning that both species had remarkable photosynthetic activity even in November. According to our results, Festuca vaginata belongs to the grasses with low transpiration intensity. Its transpiratory activity is similar to that of Festuca pallens, a species of dolomite rocks, which has many morphological characteristics shared with F. vaginata (Almádi 1984). It is typical of both species that they transpire moderately even if good water supply is available. We can say that Festuca vaginata is more or less capable of keeping its water status. This idea is sup- ported by the low WSD values that were measured on dry summer days in 1985. Even then these values did not exceed 5%. This fact closely agrees with the results of Květ and Rychnovská (1965). They reported that cut leaves of Festuca vaginata could preserve more than 50% of their water content for 8 hours when air temperature was 2 5 °C. It seems that the water use of Fes- tuca vaginata is strictly regulated and is kept at low inten- sity. This is in good agreement with Tuba's (1985) observa- tions as well; he observed low transpiratory activity and</page><page sequence="12">12 moderate photosynthetic activity simultaneously. Koeleria glauca has more intensive water transfer than Fes- tuca vaginata. It transpires intensively in spring and summer. The amplitude of its diurnal transpiration curve is greater than that of Festuca vaginata. It is more sensitive to changes in soil moisture content and relative air humidity than Fes- tuca vaginata. It has twice as high relative transpiration as Festuca vaginata in spring as well as in summer. All these facts also agree with the results of Květ and Rychnovská (1965). Cut leaves of Koeleria glauca loose half of their water content within 3.5 hours. The photosynthetic activity of the leaves is also higher than that of Festuca vaginata. In sandy grass- lands of Atlantic regions, Koeleria glauca has lower trans- piratory and photosynthetic activity than under continental conditions, especially in spring (Stocker 1967). The daily water turnover rate (WTR, Rychnovská 1984) values of fresh green organs are high for both species. On July 3, 1985, WTR values were 8.64 and 14.75 g H^O/g-day for Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca, respectively, which is in perfect agreement with the facts discussed above. Comparing the degrees of succulence for Koeleria and Fes- tuca (Table 1), similar results can be obtained. The leaves of Koeleria, which transfers more water, contain about twice as much water as the leaves of Festuca, both in spring and in sum- mer. This difference seems to be independent of the water supply, it is rather a consequence of physiological properties. The relationship between the two major factors of nutrient cycles, photosynthesis and water utilization, can be charac- terized by water utilization efficiency (WUE). WUE has great importance in summer, when water deficit is a limiting factor foi plant processes.</page><page sequence="13">13 Table 3. Water utilization efficiency (WUE) os Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca in summer (July 3, 1985) Festuca vaginata At max. photosynthetic activity (8 a.m.) 7.8 At the first max. of transpiratory activity (11 a.m.) .7 At the second max. of transpiratory activity (3 p.m.) .15 On the basis of the estimated daily sum of C02 fixation and transpiration (from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.) 1.11 Koeleria glauca At max. of photosynthetic activity (8 a.m.) 4.73 At the first max. of transpiratory activity (10 a.m.) .74 At the second max. of transpiratory activity (1 p.m.) .32 On the basis of the estimated daily sum of C02 fixation and transpiration (from 7 a.m. to 4 p.m.) 1.13 Table 3 shows the WUE values on a summer day. There is a great difference between the WUE values of the two species in the morning, when the rate of photosynthesis is maximum. Since Fes- tuca transpires very little in the morning, it has much higher WUE value than Koeleria. During the day this difference dimi- nishes because of the decreasing photosynthetic and the increas- ing transpiratory activity. This results in nearly equal WUE values calculated on the basis of the estimated daily sum of fixed CC&gt;2 and transpired water by the two species (Table 3). Measuring the net photo-synthesis of Festuca, Tuba (1985) ob- tained a similar WUE value, which also reflects low photores- piratory activity. In the open sandy grassland, the individual tufts are separated from one another regarding their nutrient cycles. Expressing the daily product of transpiration and photo- synthesis in terms of transpired water and fixed C02 by the active green part of an average tuft (Snakin et al. 1984), we found that there is no real difference between the two species. In July, an average Festuca tuft fixes 87.9 mg C02 and trans-</page><page sequence="14">14 pires 79 g water a day in the study area. The same figures for Koeleria are 91.3 mg and 81 g, respectively. If we consider the whole phytomass, quite diffèrent results are obtained. These are as follows: 1.66 mg CC^ and 1.5 g water for Festuca, and 1 mg CO2 and 0.9 g water for Koeleria. This difference is a consequence of the much larger amount of roots of Koeleria. Com- paring the two species on the basis of the activity of their leaves, Koeleria seems to be more active than Festuca. The oppo- site is true if the whole tufts are considered. On the basis of the estimate d daily product of transpira- tion and photosynthesis, both species have the same WUE values at the leaf (organ) and the tuft (individual) levels as well. The volume of nutrient and water cycles of the two species at the population level can be estimated on the basis of their dominance . According to their nutrient cycles, both Festuca vaginata and Koeleria glauca have the characteristics of the groups called the stress-tolerants (Grime 1979). The successful adap- tation and efficiency of the two species are made possible by different mechanisms. Festuca vaginata has adapted to water deficit by means of a type photosynthesis (Nagy and Horánszky 1980) so success- fully that it does not increase the intensity of its water transfer even if there is good water supply. This means that Festuca vaginata does not utilize all the available resources (Rychnovská 1985). Koeleria glauca can have intensive CC&gt;2 fixation and water transfer even during dry periods, because it has a VA mycorrhi- za in its roots. This can increase the total adsorptive sur- face of the roots by 80-100 times, depending on the degree of infection (Barber 1984). Consequently, it can utilize the water content of a much larger soil volume than Festuca vaginata.</page><page sequence="15">15 FUTURE RESEARCH In addition to the problems investigated in the present paper, there are further questions to answer: How can the degree of VA mycorrhiza infection alter the behavior of Koele- ria glauca at the population and community levels? Is there any connection between the degree of infection and the domin- ance of Koeleria in different stands of the community? Although we made some intial steps toward the better under- standing of the nutruent cycles of the dominant species of the community, the studies need to be extended. In the future, we aim to investigate in detail the strategies of water use regu- lation in these species. REFERENCES Almádi, L. 1982. Vizháztartás vizsgálatok I. (Water regime stu- dies I.). Bot. Közlem. 69:85-93 Almádi, L. 1984. Vizháztartás vizsgálatok II. Bot. Közlem. 71: 35-50 Almádi, L. 1985. Vizháztartás vizsgálatok III. Bot. Közlem,. (in press ) Barber, S. A. 1984. Soil Nutrient Bioavailability. Wiley, New York Grime, J. P. 1979. Plant Strategies and Vegetation Processes. Wiley, New York Kovács-Láng, E. and R. Mászáros-Draskovits . 1985. Temporal changes in CO~ fixation in xerotherm grasses of dry steppe habitat. In: Ekologia travného porastu II. Zbornik; pp. 135-145. Banska Bystrica Květ, J. and M. Rychnovská. 1965. Contribution to the ecology of the steppe vegetation of the Tihany peninsula II. Water retention capacity of some characteristic grass and forb species. Annal. Biol. Tihany 32:275-288 Nagy, A. H. and A. Horánszky. 1980. Productivity and photosynthe- tic flexibility in some species of a grassland community. Acta Bot , Acad. Sci. Hung. 26:389-395 Rychnovská, M. and J. Květ. 1965. Contribution to the ecology of the steppe vegetation of the Tihany peninsula III. Es- timation of drought resistance based on the saturation of water deficit. Annal. Biol. Tihany 32:289-296</page><page sequence="16">16 Rychnovská', M. 1984 . The strategy of plants for maintaining their water balance. International Conference on High- mountain Ecology. Tbilisi, USSR Rychnovská, M. 1985. Vodni provoz travinnych porostu. (Water relations of grassland plants). In: Ekologia travného porastu II. Zbornik, pp. 117-125. Banská Bystrica. Schulze, E. D., 0. L. Lange, L. Kappen, M. Evenari and N. Buchbom. 1975. Physiological basis of primary production of perennial higher plants in the Negev desert. In: J. P. Cooper (ed.), Photosynthesis and Productivity in Different Environments. IBP 3. pp. 107-119. Cambridge Univ. Press Šesták, Z., J. Catsky and P. G. Jarvis (eds). 1971. Plant Photo- synthetic Production. Manual of Methods . Junk # The Hague Slavik, B. 1974. Methods of studying plant water relations. Springer, Berlin Snakin, V. V., T. L. Bystritzkaya and E. Kovács-Láng. 1984. Izuchenie pochvennih rastvorov kak zveno krugovorota chi- micheskih elementov v lesostepnoi zone Vengrii. 'Studies on soil solutions as a compartment of the mineral cycle in the forest steppe zone in Hungary). Ekol . Kooperatia 3:58-63. Bratislava Stocker, 0. 1933. Transpiration und Wasserhaushalt in verschi- edenen Klimazonen. II. Untersuchungen in der ungarischen Alkalisteppe. Jahrb. wiss. Bot. 78:751-856 Stocker, 0. 1956. Messmethoden der Transpiration. In: W. Ruh- land (ed.), Handbuch der Pflanzenphysiologie. Vol. 3. pp. 293-311. Springer, Berlin Stocker, 0. 1967. Der Wasser- und Photosynthese-Haushalt mit- teleuropaeischer Gräser, in Beitrag zum allgemeinen Kons- titutionsproblem des Grastypus. Flora, Abt. B. 157:56-96 Tuba, Z. 1985. Homokpusztagyep-f aj ok f otoszintézis ôkológiája. ( Photosynthetic-ecological properties of some species of sandy grasslands). PhD thesis, Vácrátot (Received April 15; 1986)</page></plain_text>