<plain_text><page sequence="1">Response to Foot Necrosis Syndrome I have had three cases matching Walter Rosskopfs description of a new foot necrosis syndrome (AAV TODAY 1(5):202), all in Yellow- naped Amazons. The skin first turns black, becomes necrotic, then peels. The underlying tissue resembles granulomatous tissue, but with decreased blood supply. Biopsies and cultures have been inconclusive as to the causative agent. Case 1 developed following an episode of escape to the woods which lasted 5 days, with outdoor temperatures in the 40-50 "F range. The owner thought it was frostbite but the lesions were on the dorsal side of the leg and foot, and the toes were not involved. Medications used were: DomeboroR soak and massage of lesion area twice daily to cleanse deeply, soothe, and encourage circulation, followed by topical treat- ment with vitamins A and D Nolvasan ointment and granulex. Systemic aspirin and diphenhydramine were used when the bird seemed bothered. Varied perches were used to encourage dif- ferent angles of weight-bearing on that leg. The lesion healed slowly, but completely and the bird has had no recurrence during the past 3 years. Cases 2 and 3 responded to the above medical regime and had been free of the problem for 7 and 4 months, respectively. Then Bird 3 went to board at Bird 2's house, and the birds were exhibiting reproductive behavior. Within 5 days, both had new full blown lesions, plus recur- rence of the old ones. Treatment this time consisted of separating the birds, administration of systemic aspirin and antihistamine to decrease the pruritis and irritation, and topical application of vitamins A, D, and E after daily cleansing. Depoprovera, bandaging and collaring were necessary for Bird 3, the female, who was self-mutilating rapidly. CaladrylR lotion was used on both once healing had started. Both healed completely within 3 weeks. I have noticed that all of these birds were quite heavy-set, spent a lot of time just sitting on one perch, with more weight placed on the foot which developed the lesions. The le- sions of all three birds were on the foot opposite the banded leg. Could there be some compromise to the cir- culation/innervation to these areas from posture or inactivity? I have also wondered if this is an avian equivalent to a type of skin-fold, fungal dermatitis that we see in other animals. The west coast may be peculiar in having just the right organism. I have seen the violent mutilation wing web and foot syn- drome in other Yellow-napes and I agree it seems to be a different entity. - Cathy A. Johnson, DVM, Lynn- wood, Washington Avian Technicians' Meeting The Association of Avian Techni- cians will hold its annual meeting and educational seminar on Saturday, October 1, 1988, in conjunction with the AAV Conference in Houston. Suggestions for topics and speakers are invited. Contact Trudy Orme, AHT, 304 Bothun Road, Berthoud, CO 80513. VOL.2 NO.1 1988 37</page></plain_text>