<plain_text><page sequence="1">308 Corrections to the Reductions of LieuterLant Foster's Observations on Atmospherical Refractions at Port Bowen; with Addenda to the Table of Magnetic Intensities at the same Place. By Lieutenant Henry Foster, R.N. F.R.S. Read March 22, 1827. [Phil. Trans. 1827, p. 122.] The error of which this paper contains a correction, consists in the adoption of one exact second in arc, for the value of a division of the long level of the repeating circle with which the observations were made by the author for determining the amount of atmosphe- ric refraction at Port Bowen, an account of which is published in the Transactions of the Royal Society for 1826, Part IV.; whereas the true value is 10*'9 in arc. The error was discovered by Captain Kater, who had occasion to use the instrument, and by him com- municated to the author, who, immediately took measures to ascer- tain the fact; and having, in Captain Kater's presence, convinced himself of its reality, hastened to make the necessary recomputa- tions of the Tables affected by it, and to submit them, so corrected, to the Society; explaining at the same time the error to have arisen from erroneous information, given him at the time of receiving the instrument, which being the same with that used by Captain Sa- bine in his pendulum experiments, he took no steps to examine the point; as it never once occurred to him that there could be a doubt on the subject. The Tables affected by this error are the 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, and 12th; and the corrections, which fortunately in the three former Tables do not exceed 6"1, and in the three latter do not amount to 2", are stated. The author observes, in a postscript, that the observations given by Lieutenant Ross, at the end of the paper alluded to, must be now wholly rejected, in consequence of the original observations involv- ing the erroneous datum dependent on the level being left on board the Furyv at the time of her loss. He concludes by requesting the Society's acceptance of the ther- mometer employed by Captain Parry and himself in the observations in question, which was prepared with every possible care by Mr. Daniell for the purpose. Corrections of an Error in a Paper published in the Philosophical Transactions, entitled, ' On the Parallax of the Fixed Stars." By J. F. W. Herschel, Esq. F.R.S. Read February 22, 1827. [Phil Trans. 1827, p. 126.] This notice is destined to rectify the consequences of an error in a formula deduced in the paper alluded to, which was pointed out in the errata to the Fourth Part of the Philosophical Transactions for 1826, by the re-computation of the table accompanying it, which table so re-computed is annexed.</page></plain_text>