<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 14:23-20, 1000 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest SYN-TAX m-pc - Supplement 3: Macintosh version J. Podáni Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE Kun. Béla tér 2, Budapest, H-1083 Hungary Abstract: This paper summarizes differences between the original IBM-PC and the new Macintosh versions of the SYN-TAX IH program package developed for data analysis in community ecology and systematics. Output examples are presented for the interactive graphics routines. Introduction The SYN-TAX HI-pc package originally developed for the IBM PC and com- patibles (Podani 1989) has been adapted to the Macintosh personal computers. The two versions produce identical results, of course, but there are substantial differences concerning mainly the input/output operations. Nevertheless, it seems unnecessary to write a new user's manual; it is sufficient to summarize the new features of the Macintosh version in this supplement. Users are strongly recommended to read this information before attempting to run any program on the Macintosh. System requirements Macintosh Plus, Macintosh SE or Macintosh II with 1 Mbytes of memory and standard Macintosh printers are required. Best graphics output is produced by the LaserWriter. Color monitor is not needed, although for two graphics programs (MAPLOT, ORDPLOT) it increases the interpretability of the displayed output.</page><page sequence="2">24 Differences between the IBM and Macintosh versions General changes 1) Program names have no version numbers (2 or 3) and endings (A or T) that referred to the AT or XT version. The extension is Api in every case, and the programs may be started by double-clicking the selected icon. 2) When the user is prompted for answers of the yes/no type, both uppercase and lowercase Y will be accepted as "yes". 3) The last line of data and parameter files must contain a carriage return, otherwise -data input will be incorrect and even system errors may arise. It is always advisable to leave an empty line at the end of files. 4) If data files are transferred from computers that use both carriage return and line feed (e.g., IBM-s) to separate lines of input, the Macintosh programs will read these files properly if line feeds axe removed. Changes in FORTRAN programs The FORTRAN programs were simply downloaded from an IBM computer and only some input/ouput operations were changed and few new features added. These routines were compiled by the Absoft MacFortran compiler, version 2.4, and linked by the FORTRAN77 Linker, version 2.3. Most changes concern the batch mode. The distribution disks contain a sample parameter file for every program, with name identical to the program's name and with the extension .PAR. Inspection of this file and the manual will help the user to familiarize with the new batch operations. In the interactive mode the user will see much less differences, so it is suggested to try this mode first. 1) In batch mode the input options must be provided in free format on the parameter file. It means that the old-fashioned fixed column width specifications as detailed in the user's manual no longer apply. The options are to be listed in the same sequence and in the same number of lines as for the IBM version, but instead</page><page sequence="3">25 of arranging the right-justified numbers in columns one has to put only a separator (usually one or more space characters) between the values. Care must be taken that a value has to be specified for all options although some of them may remain unused in the current context of input options. For example, parameter C has to be specified as zero in program NCLAS even if no data standardization is required, otherwise unpredictable errors may occur. Whenever a "blank line" is specified in the user manual, include a new line containing a single zero value. However, in programs where labels (generic and species names) may be specified for variables (e.g., RANSQ) and if they are presented in the parameter file (when LAB=1), they have to be prepared in the usual fixed format (2x4 characters per each variable, 10 labels per line). 2) The programs send the output to the screen and, at the same time, typed re- sults are saved in a separate file automatically . This file may be deleted or renamed, etc. after program execution. Note that unlike in IBM compatible systems, files that existed before they were opened for output may not be completely overwritten. 3) A new feature of the Macintosh version is that the data file need not contain ihe input format in the first line. The user is asked by the program if the input format is present in the data file or not. It is especially useful in cases, for example, when distance matrices saved by one program is input for the other, because we do not have to edit the file between the two analyses. 4) Input data may be prepared in the conventional fixed column width variable formats or, which is new, too, in free format. In the latter case data items are separated by at least one space character. Free format may be used by specifying (*) in the first line of the data file or on the keyboard. Experience suggests that many users prefer the free input format. 5) The title page of the output contains more detailed information on the input options and the filenames used. 6) The IWI parameter is never read by the Macintosh versions; dendrograms</page><page sequence="4">26 and ordination scattergrams are printed with a fixed width of plotting area. Care must be taken that no value is specified for IWI in parameter files. 7) After program execution the last part of output on the screen will disappear upon pressing the Return key. 8) Sample runs in batch mode use parameter files with name of the program and extension .PAR, as mentioned before, with the exception of programs PARCOM said PARTEST which read everything from a .DAT file. The sample data file for batch mode is DATA. DAT for programs NCLAS, HMCL, ENFCL, MINSPAN, FCM, PRINCOOR, RANSQ, RANKINF and SUMR. Input format is present in the first line. Programs ELSAM and SAMPROC read sample data from MAP.DAT (format included). For all other programs the sample input file is progname.DAT, with format included, except in PARCOM which requires a keyboard input of (*). 9) Program TRANS is a new interactive routine for transposing data matri- ces. It may be tested using DATA.DAT whose transpose is identical to PRIN- COMP.DAT. Graphics routines Since there are considerable differences between the IBM and the Macintosh BASIC, these programs needed much revision to run on the Macintosh. The stand- alone routines were compiled and linked by Microsoft QuickBasic, version 1.0. Dif- ferences from the IBM versions are summarized as follows. 1) A new feature of all the four programs is that a title may be included in the diagrams, except in certain combinations of input options for program DENDPLOT. 2) The diagrams disappear from the screen upon pressing the Return key. Then the user is asked if he wishes to print the diagram or not. Some printout examples produced by a LaserWriter II are shown in Figures 1-4. 3) Maximum problem sizes did not change. Then only exception is program MINSPLOT, which accepts only 50 objects if the input file is not prepared by</page><page sequence="5">27 Figuře 1. Dendrogram plotted using data in file DEN80.DAT. Figure 2. A sample output of program ORDPLOT for 12 points. Sample dendrogram plotted by program DENDPLOT io - Pi lü í í iliÄläiiiii i 0 I 1 11 1 112114552433332223242535245223353553444444 1166766666667778556777777 1863814425790 907567951574614283293916027823014504385976233 6214259780890 680134567</page><page sequence="6">28 Figure 3. Minimum spanning tree plotted using data in fiie TREE. D AT. Figure 4. Map of species 1 and 2 from file MAP.DAT. SAMPLE OUTPUT OF PROGRAM MINSPLOT T Sample map plotted by program MAPLOT</page><page sequence="7">29 program MINSPAN. 4) Program DENDPLOT displays scaling units on the vertical axis if objects are identified by numbers (Fig. 1). 5) If the distribution of two species is displayed by program MAP LOT, the two species are identified by symbols of different color (on color screen) and shape (vertical ellipsoids for the first and horizontal ellipsoids for the second, Fig. 4). 6) In addition to the strict input formats described in the manual, programs ORDPLOT and MAPLOT will also accept data prepared in free format. Reference Podani, J. 1989. SYN-TAX DI-PC. Computer programs for data analysis in ecology and systematics. J. Classification 6:273-278.</page></plain_text>