<plain_text><page sequence="1">-36 Questions &amp; Answers In response to a suggestion from the Membership Survey, the Newsletter will include a QUESTION AND ANSWER column in each issue. Members are invited to submit questions to the Newsletter Office for which answers will be sought from qualified individuals and published in subsequent issues. Q: IF I WERE STARTING TO SEE MORE BIRDS IN MY PRACTICE, WHAT ANTIBIOTICS WOULD YOU THINK ESSENTIAL TO HAVE ON HAND? John R. Gulliford, VMD A: The antibiotics I consider essential for avian practice are listed below. Those marked by an asterisk are those which we routinely include on our sensitivity plates. PARENTERAL Gentamicin* (Elkins-Sinn) Amikacin* (Bristol) Amoxicillin* (Beecham) Cephaloridine* (Elanco) Oxytetracycline* (Pfizer) Oxytetracycline LA-200 (Pfizer) Ch1oramphe i co1 sod. succinate* (Parke-Davis) Spectinomycin (Diamond) Cefotaxime (Hoescht-Roussel) Carbenicillin* (Roerig) Ticarcillin* (Beecham) Tylosin* (Elanco) Trimethoprim/sulfa* (Wellcome) ORAL Doxycycline syrup (Pfizer) Carbenicillin tabs (Roerig) Tylosin/vitamins powder (Elanco) Nitrofurazone powder (Norden) Tetracycline powder (Cyanamid) Chloramphenicol paImitate susp. (Parke-Davis) Other products I consider essential are: Dimetridizole powder (Salsbury) Nystatin suspension (Barre) Ketoconazole tablets (Janssen) Richard Smith, DVM Hobe Sound, FL A: Specific drugs and dosages have been published in various periodicals and referenced at many Avian Medicine Seminars. The most recent compilation is by Susan Clubb in the Cage Bird Symposium, Veterinary Clinics of North America (W.B. Saunders Co., 1984) . Other references include: Bird, J.E., et al.: Pharmacokinetics of gentamicin in birds of prey. Am J Vet Res 44 (7):1245-1247. Bird, J.E., et al.: Toxicity of gentamicin in red-tailed hawks. Am J Vet Res 44 (7): 1289-1293. Clark, C.H., et al.: Plasma concentrations of chloramphenicol in birds. Am J Vet Res 43 (7) 1249-1253. Clubb, S.L.: AAV Newsletter 3 (3) 57, 1982. Clubb, S.L.: The Use of Antibiotics in Birds. AAV Annual Proceedings, 1982, pp 110-119. Fudge, A.M.: Antimicrobial Therapy in Avian Medicine. Ca Vet 10:25 29,1981. Fudge, A.M. Antimicrobial Therapy. AAV Annual Proceedings, 1983, pp 162-183. Galvin, C: Avian Drugs and Dosages. June 5, 1976 (notes). Kollias, G.V.: The Use of Antibiotics in Birds: A Review with Clinical Emphasis. AAHA1s 49th Annual Proceedings, 1982, pp 9-12. Tim Swango, DVM Lake Wales, FL</page><page sequence="2">-37 Q: DOES THE STATISTICAL INCIDENCE OF DISEASE LEND ITSELF TO THE FORMULATION OF THE USE OF A SPECIFIC ANTIBIOTIC FOR A SPECIFIC SYSTEM DISORDER IN THE ABSENCE OF DIAGNOSTIC WORK-UP OTHER THAN A GRAM STAIN? John R. Gulliford, VMD A: The answer is no, for several reasons. First, most sick birds present with similar signs, regardless of etiology. Depression, ruffling, weakness, drowsiness, loose droppings are common to a wide variety of disorders. Unfortunately, physical examination alone often adds little to the discovery of the disease process. Finally, the progress of many diseases in the bird can be devastatingly rapid. Therefore, inappropriate treatment can be life-threatening. For these reasons, I reserve treatment until appropriate diagnostics are obtained. Only in the crisis patient is treatment begun first. Remember, too, that appropriate diagnostics need not be expensive or time consuming. Such straight-forward procedures as impression smears, gram stains, fecal examinations, crop aspiration, etc. may be quick, inexpensive and informationally rewarding. Richard Smith, DVM Hobe Sound, FL A: A diagnostic work up is very important in avian medicine. On ly through evaluation of physical and lab data can we hope to dif ferentiate between the diseases and system disorders which often present with similar signs. While lab work is pending, anti biotics can be started if infec tious disease is suspected. Cer tain patterns of disease do e volve which allow first-choice antibiotics to be selected more intelligently, but the diagnostic work-up remains essential to the definitive diagnosis we seek to attain. Susan Wells, DVM New Orleans, LA A: A specific antibiotic should be used for a specific disease syndrome in an effort to decrease the risk of producing resistant bacteria. In avian practice w see many resistant bacteria an other diseases produced by the widespread use of many drugs (tetracyclines/ furacin, sulfas, antifungals, anthelmintics, coc cidiostats, and who knows what else) prior to a professional consultation that makes the prac titioner's diagnosis much harder. This is why culture and sensiti vity testing is essential and often needs to be repeated sev eral times during a bird's il lness. Tim Swango, DVM Lake Wales, FL Q: WHAT MINIMAL EQUIPMENT SHOULD BE CONSIDERED ESSENTIAL BY A PRACTITIONER WHO PROCLAIMS AN AVIAN INTEREST? John R. Gulliford, VMD A: My recommended minimum equipment list includes a gram scale with a home-made perch attached, a speculum for oral examination of large psittacines (a human nasal speculum works nicely), a set of stainless steel feeding tubes, infrared heat lamps for the hospital cage area, a pediatric stethoscope and a laparoscope. Susan Wells, DVM New Orleans, LA</page><page sequence="3">-38 A: My personal prejudices suggest the following equipment and capabilities should be available to the avian practitioner, either in house or on a referral basis. Examination area: Pediatric stethoscope Oral speculum Head loupe; magnifying exam light Clear, cool focal light source (fiberoptic is best) TB syringes, 27 and 30 gauge needles Rat scale Dremel tool with foot control Diagnostic: Microtainer blood collection tubes Large temotocrit tubes B-D IM-1 needles 22 gauge Ultra detail radiograph cassettes Restraint board (Home-made or B.D.Creations, Lindenhurst N.Y.) Transport media for virus and chlamydial study Bacteriology - quick and re liable ID and sensitiv ity of avian pathogens Histopathology - by experi enced avian pathologist Hematology - will require specific avian interest and experience Blood Chemistry - ability to do profile testing on micro samples Laparoscopy - for surgical sexing, diagnostic exam, and biopsy retrieval Avian Ward: Variety of easy to care for cages Pediatric incubator Safe, sustainable 85-90 am bient temperature; may be room wide or provided on individual basis by 250 W infrared heating lamps. Test any method thorough ly before exposing birds to the area. Vaporizer Oxygen cage/nebulizer Variety of soft rubber ure thral catheters for gavage feeding, crop sampling Surgery: Small butterfly catheters 22-23 gauge Water circulating heating pad Small instrument surgical pack including ophthalmic need le holders, jeweler's for ceps, lid speculum, micro surgical scissors, small pin chuck Assortment of gut, dexon, vi cryl, nylon in 4/0 to 7/0 Electrosurgical unit with fully rectified high fre quency capabilities (Ellman) Dental acrylics for beak repair Tissue Glue Small K-wires Stainless steel suture 3/0 and 4/0 Pediatric E-T tubes Richard Smith, DVM Hobe Sound, FL Q: THERE ARE FORMS OF VITAMINS BEING MARKETED WITH IODINE IN THEM. BECAUSE OF ITS IODIZING AND CATALYTIC PROPERTIES, DOES THIS CAUSE A LOSS OF VITAMIN POTENCY? Ron Spink, D.V.M. A: It depends on how the iodine is supplied. If potassium iodide is the source of the iodine there is some vitamin loss. Other iodine salts such as calcium iodate or EDDI are less volatile and cause less oxygenation or degradation. On the other hand, other trace minerals such as magnesium, iron and copper are much more reactive with the vitamins. From our exten sive studies of vitamin stability, we have noted in dry concentrated vitamin premixes that the shelf life of vitamins is reduced by at least 50% in relation to time when they are in the presence of these</page><page sequence="4">-39 trace minerals as opposed to a vitamin mixture without the trace minerals. Therefore we have recommended for the last 10-12 years that vitamins and trace minerals not be combined in the same package. It is better to add the two separately to any feed ration or diet. Unfortunately, most multi-vitamin premixes that are available to the veterinary and/or feed industry do contain trace minerals, which they shouldn1t. Of course, the minute you solubilize vitamins to make an aqueous solution, the stability is very limited. Most vitamin premixes are sold dry.and mixed with fresh water every 24 hours. Some emulsifiable forms of vitamins need to include adequate overages in order to compensate for the loss of potency over a period of time and still meet the guaranteed analysis on the label. One should certainly not purchase vitamins without a guaranteed analysis. A number of papers have been published over the years addressing the effect of trace minerals on vitamin stability. For further information or reprints, write to Dept. of Agricuture Animal Health, Hoffman-LaRoche, Inc., Nutley, N.J. 07110. C.R. Adams, PhD Director, Technical Services Hoffman- LaRoche, Inc. Q: WHAT IS THE CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE FOR INTERPRETATION OF ANY LAB VALUES FOR BUN, CREATININE, LDH, AND BILIRUBIN IN PSITTACINES? - (From Mid-Atlantic States Avian Veterinary Meeting) A: In my opinion, not having done any real experimental work in any of these species, but from what we know in the chicken where experimental work has been done, none of those have any value at all in birds (at least in chick ens) ? BUN measures urea and birds do not have any significant a mount of urea; uric acid is a more valid test, however there is so much variability among birds that there would have to be a significant elevation, or the baseline values known for an individual bird for the results to be meaningful. Albert Lewan dowski created some experimental kidney lesions and did not see any significant rise in eleva tions in uric acid. Some people place credence in Creatinine tests, but the narrow range between what is considered normal and abnormal could be well within the experi mental error of the technique. The way that Creatinine tests are usually conducted can get a lot of interference from the presence of glucose, for example, and other factors. Creatine may be more useful in birds. I have never seen any infor mation on LDH levels except in chickens and waterfowl. In those species, it is widely distributed in every tissue. If you have an elevated LDH, about all you can tell is the bird is sick, which doesnft help much, because if you've taken the blood, you prob ably already know the bird is sick.</page><page sequence="5">-40 Any hemolysis will also significantly elevate LDH. Since there are 5 isoenzymes in LDHf we're going to look at developing some specific isoen zyme tests. Bilirubin, again is not applicable, but the measurement of biliverdin has possi bilities. There are probably other speci fic tests that would be useful in birds. However, we're talking here about tests that are ordin arily not conducted by laboratories for hu mans. So the limita tions are, unless you are willing to do them yourself, there is no place to get them done. The thing that's confusing to beginning avian practitioners is that they will get back a set of values for all these tests when they submit a serum sample. The laboratories have pan els that are already set up. It is simpler How to collect capillary blood using the MICROTAINER' System Preliminary Streps 1. Make sure Flolbp collector Is seated securely. 2. Select puncture site. Cleanse. Dry with sterile gauze pad. 3. Puncture skin with MICROLANCE? Lancet. 4. Wipe away first drop of blood. 5. Avoid milking of puncture site. Flolbp Collector . Vent Hole Collection Procedure L Collect Hold MICROTAINER Tube at an angle below horizontal: vent hole upward. Touch tip of FloTbp Collec tor to underside of drop, as shown. Do not touch tip to the middle of the drop. Blood will flow freely through the FloTbp Collector and down the tube wall. 3. Cap. Serum tubes. Remove FloTbp Collector from MICROTAINER Tube and discard. Replace with plug. EDTA tubes. Remove FloTbp Collector and discard. Replace with plug. Invert tube gently 8-10 times or roll between palms to thoroughly mix sample and anticoag ulant. 4. Transport. Send specimen to laboratory. Becton Dickinson VACUTAINER Systems Rutherford. New Jersey 07070 for them to run the avian serum through the entire battery of tests than to separate out the ones the practitioner wants to look at. When you get numerical values for these tests, the lab is not suggesting to you that these have any value ? that's just the reporting method. So the question for the practitioner is, which of these have any sign ificance in making a diagnosis? It's absolutely useless to send whole blood; you have to separate the serum. As a reminder of IME 57, the Microtainer System is a simple method for separating small samples. F. Joshua Dein, VMD National Zoo Patholoqy Dept. Q: WHAT IS THE LATEST "SHOT GUN" THERAPY FOR SICK BIRDS? A: Lactated wingers and beak complex. Chuck Galvin Petaluma, CA</page></plain_text>