<plain_text><page sequence="1">Impression Smears Aid Diagnoses Impression smears of parenchymal organs are very useful post mortem diagnostic tools. A majority of cases of Pacheco's Disease (parrot herpesvirus), papovavirus infection (so-called nestling disease of parrots), or parrot reovirus infection can be diagnosed the same day as the necropsy if impression smears are made of the liver or spleen. I look at them with Hematoxylin &amp; Eosin stain (which, although it is usually used for tissue sections, can be set up for use with smears), Giemsa stain, or immunofluorescence (fluorescent antibody tests). Thus, these diseases can be confirmed either by demonstrating intranuclear inclusion bodies of herpesvirus or papovavirus on the impression smears, or by proving the presence of the virus by fluorescent antibody technique. If the practitioner is doing the necropsy, he or she can make the impression smears and send them off to appropriate laboratories for staining. Although tissues should be sent for sectioning as well, the diagnosis may be able to be confirmed faster if impression VOL. 1 NO. 2 1987 67</page><page sequence="2">In My Experience... smears are provided. If the practitioner is sending smears for fluorescent antibody tests and is not quite sure what he is looking for, multiple smears (4-8 slides) should be prepared, air dried, fixed in acetone, frozen, and sent (still frozen) to the laboratory. If the only concern is for the diagnosis of chlamydiosis, the practitioner can prepare impression smears of the spleen/liver/air sacs, air dry them, fix them in acetone, dry them again, and send them at room temperature to a lab that is performing a fluorescent antibody test for chlamydiosis. Chlamydial antigen is a very hardy one and does not have to be frozen. As a reminder, to make a proper impression smear, cut off a small amount of uncontaminated tissue, blot and roll it many times on paper towel (partially crushing the tissue) before touching it to the microscope slide. This procedure ensures that the appropriate tissue cells will be left on the surface of the slide for diagnostic purposes. - David L. Graham, D VM, PhD, Cornell University, Ithaca, New York</page></plain_text>