<plain_text><page sequence="1">192 with the Hydrographer's Office of the. United States, so that the united labours of the two greatest naval and commercial nations of the world may be combined, with the least practicable delay, in promoting the interests of navigation. The President and Council refer to the documents which have been submitted to them, and more especially to the " Explanations and Sailing Directions to accompany wind and current clarts" pre- pared by Lieutenant Maury, for a more detailed account of this system of cooperative observations, and of the grounds upon which they have ventured to make the preceding recommendations. (Signed) S. HUNTER CHRISTIE, Sec. R.S. H. U. Addington, Esq. 3. "Second Appendix to a paper entitled 'Discovery that the Veins of the Bat's Wing (which are furnished with valves) are en- dowed with rythmical contractility.'" By T. Wharton Jones, Esq., F.R.S. &amp;c. The author states that, from a microscopical examination of the blood-vessels and circulation in the ears of the long-eared bat, he has ascertained that, different from what he had discovered to be the case in the wings, the veins of the ears are unfurnished with valves, and are not endowed with rythmical contractility, and that the onward flow of blood in them is consequently uniform. 4. A paper was in part read, entitled, "Upon the Morphology. of the Cephalous Mollusca, as illustrated by the anatomy of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda." By Thomas Huxley, Esq., F.R.S. Received March 18, 1852. May 27, 1852. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. Tlhe reading of Mr. Huxley's paper, " Upon, the Morphology of the Cephalous Mollusca, as illustrated by the Anatomy of certain Heteropoda and Pteropoda," was resumed and concluded. In the present memoir the author endeavours to determine, upon anatpmical and embryological grounds, the true homologies of the different organs of the Cephalous Mollusca, and thence to arrive at some idea of the archetypal form, as definite modifications of which the existing molluscous forms may be considered to have arisen. The Pelagic Heteropoda and Pteropoda, from their small size and extreme transparancy, are peculiarly favourable subjects for the ana- tomical part of this investigation, and it is from a detailed examina- tion of those systems of organs which are of importance for the pur- pose that the author deduces the following conclusions:- 1. In the Heteropoda the intestine is bent towards the dorsal or haemal side in consequence of the development behind the eanus of the visceral " hernia," which is therefore called a post-abdomen.</page></plain_text>