<plain_text><page sequence="1">147 author's object is, first to present, under a general and uniform ana- lysis, the whole theory of the aberration of spherical surfaces; and then to furnish practical results of easy computation to the artist, and applicable, by the simplest interpolations, to the ordinary ma- terials on which he works. In pulrsuing these ends he has found it necessary somewhat to alter the usual language employed by optical writers;--thus, instead of speaking of thefocal length of lenses, or the radii of their surfaces, he speaks of their powers and curvatures; de- signating, by the former expression, the quotient of unity by the number of parts of any scale which the focal length is equal to; and by the latter, the quotient similarly derived from the radius in question. After adverting to some other parts of the subject of this paper, more especially to the problem of the destruction of the spherical aberration in a double or multiple lens, and to the difficulties which it involves, Mr. Herschel observes, that one condition, hitherto un- accountably overlooked, is forced upon our attention by the nature of the formula of aberration given in this paper; namely, its de- struction not only from parallel rays, but also from rays diverging' from a point at any finite distance, and which is required in a perfect telescope for land objects, and is of considerable advantage in those for astronomical use: 1st, The very moderate curvatures required for the surfaces; 2nd, That in this construction the curvatures of the two exterior surfaces of the compound lens of given focal length vary within very narrow limits, by any variation in either the refrac- tive or dispersive powers at all likely to occur in practice; 3rd; That the two interior surfaces always approach so nearly to coinci- dence, that no considerable practical error can arise from neglecting their difference, and figuring them on tools of equal radii.. An Account of the Skeletons of the Dugong, Two-horned Rhinoceros, and Tapir of Susmatra, sent to England by Sir Thomas Stamford Raffles, Governor of Bencoolen. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read M\larch 22, 1821. [Phil. Trans. 1821, p. 268.] In this paper, Sir Everard first describes, by reference to an an- nexed drawing, the peculiar form of the skeleton of the dugong, which he compares to a boat without a keel, with the bottom upper- most; so that in the sea the middle of the back is the highest point in the water; and as the lungs are very extensive, they render the animal buoyant. As a compensation for legs, the dugong has a pe- culiar means of suspending itself in the sea, the centre of the back forming the point of suspension, similar to the fulcrum of a pair of scales; this peculiarity explains the form of the jaws, which are placed at an angle with the skull, unlike those of any other animal. There is no renmarkable difference between the bones of the two., horned rhinoceros, compared with those of the single-horned species, except that the projection in front of the skull, formed by the uniion of the nasal bones, is more nearly in a straigft line and more ex.- TL 2</page><page sequence="2">14.8 tended; in the viscera of these animals there is, however, a more marked difference. The bones of the Sumatran tapir closely resemble those of the American, but the skull of the former has a broader frontal bone, and no middle ridge; the nasal bones are larger, giving a propor- tionate increased dimension to the nostrils. The skeleton of the tapir differs from that of the rhinoceros in the smaller extent of the scapulae and pelvis. The stomach of the Sumatran tapir is shaped like that of the rhi- noceros; the cesophagus is smooth and cuticular; the small intestines are 69 feet long; the length and greatest breadth of the caecum is 1 foot; the length of the colon and rectum is 19 feet 6 inches; the spleen is long. and narrow; the kidneys conglobate; and the lungs composed of one principal lobe on each side, of considerable length, and two smaller lobes. On the Mean Density of the Earth. By Dr. Charles Hutton, F.R.S. Read April 5, 1821. [Phil. iTrans. 1821, p. 276.] Since the first notice of the determination of the mean density of the earth by Newton, two experimental inquiries only have been undertaken in relation to it; namely, in the case of the Schehallien experiment by the author and by Dr. Maskelyne; and by Mr. Ca- vendish, who used a method invented by Mr. Mitchell. Dr. Hutton proposes in this paper to show by a statement of, and observations upon, the two methods, that the preference, in point of accuracy, belongs to the mountain experiment over that of the small balls employed by Mr. Cavendish; and the results of this experi- ment, duly corrected by that of Mr. Playfair's lithological survey of the mountain, give the mean density of the earth equal to 5 times the density of water, and not 4 5, a number unfairly assumed on some occasions, as the author's final determination. In adverting to the advantage that might result from a repetition of the mountain experiment in some other favourable situation, and with improved means, Dr. Hutton suggests the employment of one of the large pyramids of Egypt for the purpose. The mass, he says, is sufficiently large, and the station for the plummet or zenith sec- tor might be taken much nearer the centre of the mass than on a mountain, which would give a larger quantity of deviation of the plummet. The regular figure and known composition of the mass would also yield facilities in calculating its attraction; and, moreover, the devi- ation of the plummet might be observed on all four sides. On the Separation of Iron from other Metals. By J. F. W. Herschel, Esq. F.R.S. Read April 5, 1821. [Phil. Trans. 1821, p. 293. After adverting to the importance of an easy means of effecting the above purpose in analytical inquiries, and to the insufficiency of</page></plain_text>