<plain_text><page sequence="1">98 Newton, he informs us of the circumstances which led him to the present investigation, namely, the occasion he had some years ago to solve a problem which required the rectification of an equilateral hyperbola. He then enters upon his subject; and in a first section he investi- gates in nine theorems the several series which apply to this curve, whose different characters, namely, the ratios of their terms, or rather the rates of their convergency and divergency, depend on the relative proportions of their elements. Of these series one only, and that not the best, is all that he has hitherto been able to find in other works. Two are of the form which is called ascending, and six descending. One of them is of a peculiar form, which can only be understood by turning to the paper. Among these series, he observes, may always be folnd some which will converge, whether the portion of the hy- perbolic arch taken from the vertex be long or short, or of a mode- rate length; but the ascending series always differs from the de- scending one by a constant quantity. In a second section the author treats of the methods of computing the values of the constant quantities, by which the ascending series differ from the descending ones. Here he has recourse to two methods, of which he has already given an illustration in his Mathematical Es- says: the one by computing the value of both an ascending and de- scending series, taking for the ordinate to the axis some small definite quantity; and the other by comparing the values of those series to- gether, when the ordinate is taken immensely great. The former method he says is more general; but the latter, when it can be ap- plied, usually affords the easiest computation. In the third section are given five examples, which show the use of these theorems, as well as the manner of choosing such as are best adapted to any particular case. In one of these the author corrects an error in the length of a large arch of an equilateral hyperbola, which was first published in the year 1771, and has been since re- printed by some eminent mathematicians. Lastly, he concludes with some remarks on former writers, and takes notice of the defects of two series given by the late Dr. Waring for the rectification of an hyperbola. Catalogue of 500 new Nebule, nebulous Stars, planetary Nebule, and Clusters of Stars; with Remarks on the Construction of the fleavens. By William Herschel, LL.D. F.R.S. Read July 1, 1802. [Phil. Trans. 1802, p. 477.1 To this catalogue is prefixed a classification of the multitude of sidereal bodies hitherto discovered, not according to their appa- rent magnitudes or appearances on our earth, but according to their peculiar nature and arrangement in the heavens. They are divided into the twelve following classes: 1. Insulated stars,- or such as may be considered olut of the reacl of mutual -attraction; such as our Sun, Arcturus, Capella, Lyra, Si-</page><page sequence="2">99 rius, &amp;c.-These indeed, as well as all other heavenly bodies, cannot be said to be entirely free from the influence of the stars surrounding them; but the character assigned to them is, that the attraction in one direction is so counteracted by a contrary influence of the same nature, as to be retained for many ages in a state almost equal to undisturbed rest. Dr. Herschel suspects that we are to look for solar systems only among those insulated stars. 2. Binary sidereal systems, or double stars.-It is sufficiently ob- vious that these are not stars seen nearly in the same visual ray, for these rays may be an immense distance from each other; but by these are meant two stars that are connected together by the in- fluence of attraction. It is easy to prove, by the doctrine of gravi- tation, that two stars thus connected, and sufficiently distant from the influence of other celestial bodies, will perform. revolutions round a common centre of motion; that hence they will always move in di- rections opposite and parallel to each other; and that their system, if not destroyed by some foreign cause, will remain permanent. This kind of rotation is exemplified by the instance of our earth and the moon. Dr. Herschel proposes, on a future occasion, to communi- cate a series of observations made on double stars, whereby it will be seen that many of them have actually changed their situation with regard to each other, in a progressive course, denoting a periodical revolution round each other, and that the motion of some of them is -direct, while that of others is retrograde. 3. More complicated sidereal systems, or treble, quadruple, and multiple stars.-From the combination of two stars, it is easy to ad- vance a step further, and allow that three or more stars may be con- nected in one mutual system of reciprocal attraction; and the com- putation for determining the common centre of their respective orbits is here exemplified by a variety of hypothetical cases. The author at the same time asserts, that there is not a single night when in passing over the zones of the heavens by sweeping, he does not meet with numerous collections of such multiple stars, apparently insu- lated from other groups, and probably joined in some small sidereal system of their own. 4. Clustering stars.-These are described as great collections of small stars that are profusely scattered over the milky way, by no means uniformly, but unequally dispersed in many separate allot- ments. An instance of one of these aggregates is given, which in a space of about 50 between 13 and y Cygni, contains above 331,000 stars. A more particular account of the milky way, we are pro- mised, will be the subject of a future communication. 5. Groups of stars.-These differ from the preceding class by being collections of closely, and -almost equally compressed stars, of any figure or outline; and from the next following, by showing no particular condensation that seems to point out any ideal centre of attraction. 6. Clusters of stars.-These are generally round, and the compres- sion of their stars indicates a gradual accumulation towards their H 2</page><page sequence="3">100 centre, whiere they are sufficiently condensed to produce 'the appear- ance of % nucleus. These we are told are the most magnificent ob- jects that can be seen in the heavens. 7. Nebul6e.-These, it is thought, may be resolved into the three last-mentioned species, only removed to such a distance that they can only be seen by means of the most powerful telescopes. 8. Stars with burrs, stellar Nebule.-These are thought to be clusters of stars, at great distances, the light of which is gathered so nearly into one point, as. to leave but just enough of it visible to pro- duce the appearance of burrs. 9. Milky nebulosities.-These phaenomena are probably of two different kinds, one of them being deceptions; namely, such as arise from extensive regions of closely connected clustering stars contigu- ous to each other, like those that compose, our milky way: the other, on the contrary, being real, and possibly at no very great distance from us. The milky nebulosity of Orion, discovered by Huygens, is given as an instance of this singular appearance. 10. Nebulous stars.-Whether these be the effect of the atmo- spheres of certain stars remains yet to be determined; and indeed every thing respecting the nature of these appearances is still in- volved in much doubt and obscurity. 11. Planetary Nebule; and 12. Planetary Nebulae with centres.- These also, though- objects manifestly distinct from the former ones, are as yet so imperfectly known, as to baffle all reasoning concerning their nature and habits; and Dr. Herschel contents himself for the present with merely inserting the few he has observed in his cata- logue. Here follows the copious catalogue of Nebulae, &amp;c., which being a continuation of two preceding papers of the like nature, and arranged in the same manner, requires no further explanation. The Bakerian Lecture. Observations on the Quantity of horizontal Refraction; with a Method of measuring the Dip at Sea. By Wil- liam Hyde Wollaston, M.D. F.R.S. Read November 11, 1802. [Phil. Trans. 1803, p. 1.] In a communication on this subject, published in the volume of the Philosophical Transactions for the year 1800, Dr. Wollaston ac- counted for various singular phenomena of horizontal refraction by certain gradual changes in the density of the refracting medium. Hav- ing since perused what M. Monge has published in the Memoires sur l'Egypte, concerning the appearance known to the French by the name of Mirage, where it is ascribed to permanent rarefied strata of air near the surface of the earth; our author, having reconsidered the subject, and finding that the facts related by the French philo- sopher accord entirely with his own theory, declares here that he still adheres to his former opinion, and assigns his reasons for not de- parting from it. The chief of these reasons is, that the definite reflecting surface,</page></plain_text>