<plain_text><page sequence="1">IN MY EXPERIENCE. IME 58 . . There are some problems with interpretation of hematology results of cage birds due to the wide range of variables involved: stressors that affect birds in general; variations among species; whether the patient is a newly imported bird or from a breeding situation. There is not sufficient information available to characterize the stressors as they relate to captivity, diet, etc. as opposed to domestic animals. ? David Graham, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 59 It is completely valueless to swab for a culture from the external nares of a bird due to environmental contamination. It is much more valid to take a microbiological sample from the nasal passages and sinuses. (Very few birds have infection of one without the other.) Sterile saline is used to wash the sinus cavity if aspiration itself does not produce the material. ? David Graham, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 60 . . An endoscope or otoscope may be used to examine the air sacs and peritoneal cavity. A swab can be taken through the endoscopy hole. Amazons may have more severe air sac infection on the right side, so check both sides. ? David Graham, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 61 . .In recording data for hemocytblogy, you need to add how and where the bloo.d was collected. There may be a difference in values from site to site. The most consistent results are taken with a 23 down to 27 gauge needle from the jugular ? the right jugular is bigger. Differences in values may also be produced with manual restraint of tane birds as opposed to wild caught birds. Values are also different between birds restrained with ketamine anesthesia versus manually. There would be a higher heterophil count involved in manual restraint because of the stress phenomena. ? David Graham, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 62 . . There are several methods of obtaining WBC values, most of which have high degrees of error. I recommend the Semi Indirect WBC Count which requires: (a.) absolute total heterophil-eosinophil count (b.) differential count. Use the cover slip preparation method for a good smear with even distribution. For instructions on this see 3rd Edition, Veterinary Hematology by Schalm, Jain, and Carroll; Lea &amp; Febiger, 1975? P? 26-27 STEP 1: DIFFERENTIAL COUNT (Use Wright's Stain) Example: Heterophils 38*) ^ Lymphocytes 47 Eosinophils 1J&gt; Monocytes 13 Immature Het 1 Basophils 0</page><page sequence="2">-6 STEP 2: TOTAL HETEROPHIL/EOSINOPHIL COUNT Dilute and mix in phloxine diluent (a.dye that specificaJ stains the granules of both heterophils and eosinophils). Use Unopette Test 5^77 Count in hemocytometer as for eosinophil count of mammal blood. Example: Total Het/Eos = 4412/ cu. mm. STEP 3s CALCULATE TOTAL WBC Example: TWBC = 100 4412 39 TWBC = 4412 x 100 39 TWBC = 11,313/ cu. mm. CAUTIONS for more accuate results: 1. Collect blood from bird and make smear immediately before adding EDTA. 2. Do not hold mixture with EDTA for more than 30 minutes before testing. ? David Graham, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 63 It is recommended that the owner of a newly imported bird keep it on chlortetracycline for prevention of psittacosis after quarantine. Thirty days1 treatment has been found to be sufficient in small birds - finches, cockatiels, some grass parakeets; 45 days is recommended for amazon-sized birds, and up to 60 days for macaws and cockatoos. The problem comes in giving enough tetracycline to get a specific blood level and to maintain it. The tetracycline-treated pellets show promise but are not yet accepted officially. Keet Life , (tetracycline-treated millet) is generally given to the smaller birds, and is well-accepted if the birds are already familiar with regular millet as part of their seed diet. If accep tance is a problem, try introducing small amounts of it with the normal seed, then gradually change over to straight Keet Life. For very tiny finches, you may need to smash the millet seeds for easier consumption. In some cases, you may want to treat the drinking water as well (250 mg chlortetracycline per gallon of water). For larger birds, treatment with SF Mix 66, mixed according to the directions on the back with a palatable food, seems to be ade quate . I have heard of people using tetracycline pediatric drops when no other source of the drug was available. However, the concentration is only 1/10 the dose required, so increasing the amount by ten fold to produce blood levels required is not only economically impractical, it may interfere with consumption at that volume. ? Ralph Cooper, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 64 . .It is important to remember when testing for the chlamydia organism, that the birds do not shed it every day. I would suggest taking a series of samples, putting them in the same tube and shipping together for diagnosis. ?_r\-^-_"n_1Z_M_</page><page sequence="3">-7 IME 65 . . During whatever treatment regime you choose for the prevention or treatment of psittacosis, I would heartily recommend additional doses of vitamins and anti-fungal agents (which are advised during any prolonged antibiotic therapy) to prevent crop mold and other overgrowth of fungi. Calcium Proprionate (or more recently Sodium Proprionate) can be added to the food (1 heaping teaspoon per pound of food). Additional doses of vitamins, in particular Vitamin A, appear to raise the resistance of the mucosal surfaces to infection. ? Ralph Cooper, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 66 . .Of the many E. coli serotypes, 90-95f? are probably not pathogenic. But if they are pathogenic, they can be deadly! A wide variety of symptoms have been deliberately produced with a variety of serotypes of the organism. Unfortunately, serotyping, to identify which are the "hot" pathogens, is not part of a diagnostic laboratory's normal regime. E. coli has been cultured from such things as meal worms normally fed to a variety of birds. In fact, any bird who eats animal protein will have E. coli from time to time. Birds in the wild usually increase this food source during breeding season. If E. coli is recovered from a routine culture from healthy birds, I would ignore its presence. If a single bird from the flock is sick, I would treat that bird and keep an eye on the rest. ? Ralph Cooper, D.V.M. (From AVMA Meeting) IME 67 A universal tube feeding formula I have used for long term maintenance of birds (as well as snakes, cats, dogs) is 2 jars of Gerbers Strained Meat mixed with 1 can Esbilac and a little water to rinse out jars. This can be stored in the refrig erator for 5 days. ? Earl Schobert, D.V.M. (DVM Newsmagazine Interview) IME 68 . . Aspergillosis as a disease-producer is hard to diagnose and treat. We may culture the organism out of the penguins at the zoo, but they are clinically normal until a stress occurs (such as the air conditioner breaking down and the birds getting overheated) at which time we will lose a bird or two to the disease. ? Bill Boever, D.V.M. (Ed. note: In talking with Pat Redig at the AFA meeting, he stated that heat stress is the primary cause of destruction of the macro phages in the lung, leading to respiratory disease, for example, aspergillosis.) (DVM Newsmagazine Interview) IME 69 Since birds1 reactions to consumption of certain poisons vary, I've wondered if there is a possible correlation between the condition of the liver and the toxic reaction. For suspected poisonings, I tube feed a mixture of 10-12 cc milk of magnesia with 1 teaspoon powdered activated aquarium charcoal. -- Earl Schobert, D.V.M. (DVM Newsmagazine Interview)</page><page sequence="4">-b IME 70 . . A captive bred and hand-raised bird will make a much better pet than one that is imported, in terms of longevity and psychological suitability for captivity. It will also be relatively free of stress related diseases (such as in feather picking cockatoos). ? Graeme Phipps (From AFA Seminar) IME 71 . . Antihistamines, such as pediatric Naldecon syrup (5 mg Phenylpropanolamine HCl/5 nil - Bristol) may be used in the early stages of respiratory problems to help dry up the sinuses, make the bird more comfortable and allow him to eat a little bit better while you are looking for the primary cause of the disease. The drops are given orally: .1 ml bid for a macaw; .05 ml bid for an amazon. -- Phil Ensley, D.V.M. (From AFA Seminar) IME 72 . . The SF Mix 66 chlortetraycline Feed Premix for the prevention and treatment of psittacosis does not have to be used strictly with the rice and chicken scratch mash as suggested on the back of the package. You can mix appropriate doses-with other soft foods that might be more palatable. Just make sure the other foods do not contain high levels of calcium, as calcium ties up the tetracycline and makes it unavailable. It is now recommended that psittacines be treated for 45 days, rather than 30. -- Ed Bayer, D.V.M. (From AFA Seminar) IME 73 . . In regard to surgical sexing with a laparoscope, I would suggest practicing on 150-200 pigeons before attempting the procedure on a more valuable bird. Perhaps you could euthanize the bird afterward, open it up and check on entry site, relation ships of organs, possible damage inflicted by the scope, etc. Experience is the best way to become familiar with the magnification effect of the lens and organ appearances. I use a clear plastic drape for laparoscopy so the anesthetized patient can be more easily monitored during the surgery. Problems may occur with: 1. positioning prior to entry (it will throw your "landmarks'1 out of kilter) 2. bleeding - be willing to stop if skin incision starts bleeding, wait a couple of days and try again. 3. fat birds - difficult to observe and differentiate gonads. ? Mitch- Bush, D.V.M. (From AFA Seminar) IME 74 . . For surgical sexing of birds, I prefer doing the technique without anesthesia! and using the standard otoscope found in a veterinary practice. For me, this is the instrument of choice because of its portability, and since the lens itself is on the out side of the body, there is less disorientation when looking through it. I advise clients to remove food and water for 2-3 hours prior to the procedure. I have seen hypoglycemic-like behavior if the birds have been fasted overnight, and you may have problems. Following the procedure, I take a stitch with absorbable suture material to enhance the healing of the skin incision, and then spray with Nitrofurazone. ? ? -r-i-l t 1 P ir Hit</page><page sequence="5">-9 IME 75 It appears that a nationwide standard has been developed for marking sexed birds. Females are marked in the left wing web (either a tatoo of letters or numbers, or injection of India ink under the skin) . Males are marked on the right side . ? Greg Harrison, D.V.M. IME 76 . . One of the most meticulously cared for patients that an avian veterinary practitioner is likely to encounter is the trained falcon. The bond established between falconer and falcon is strong, nutured by weeks and months of association which pro duces an extreme level of confidence in the bird toward her handler. When a falcon is presented for examination and treatment, many of the things the veterinarian must do are completely contrary to the handling procedures to which the falcon is accustomed. If the bird is improperly handled, the veterinarian can do irreparable damage to the bond between the bird and the handler. For this reason, I find it desireable to anesthetize the birds for even routine blood work or bandage changes to minimize the stress involved in manual restraint. ? Pat Redig, D.V.M. (From AFA Seminar) IME 77 Inasmuch as aspergillosis is regarded as a disease affecting an immunologically suppressed host, I administer levamisole as an immuno-stimulant. I have found a single injection of 2 mg/kg at the onset of treatment to have measureable effects up to 7 we^ks. ? Pat Redig, D.V.M. (From AFA Seminar) IME 78 . . Aspergillosis appears to have several syndromes: 1. A localized obstructing lesion, in the trachea or bronchus, which can be surgically removed and the area swabbed with ampho tericin B. 2. Acute, due to inhalation of overwhelming number of spores. This type .has been completely refractory to treatment. 3* Chronic with host reaction. 4. Chronic with minimal host reaction. The degree of debilitation depends on the immunological status of the host and the numbers of organisms involved. Amphotericin B is a useful drug in chronic cases. Intravenous injections of amphotericin B (1-5 mg/kg) are given tid"for 3 days. Although the dose may appear high, pharmacodynamic determinations of this drug in birds has revealed a TWp of less than 3 hours and no evidence of nephrotoxicity (Redig, 1980) . Intratracheal injections do not produce blood levels but are also useful. Use 1 mg/kg and dilute to 2 cc with sterile water. Other elements in the treatment regime have included 5-fluoro cytosine (Ancoban, Hoffman-LaRoche). I have found 40 mg/kg orally tid to be safe in all species of ,birds, however, in raptors that dose is only fungistatic. We have gradually increased the dose and found 120 mg/kg tid to be safe and fungicidal in raptors, but the toxicity has not been tested for that dose in other species. Rifampin (Rifadin, Dow Chemical) has been used at 30 mg/kg orally tid. ~ Pat Redig, D.V.M. (From AFA Seminar)</page><page sequence="6">-10 IME 79 . . A recently developed modification of the Kirschner splint used in the fixation of a wide variety of fractures and particularly those in periarticular regions involves the replace ment of the external stabilizer bar and clamps with Hexcelite or other type casting material. Four or mora pins are placed per pendicularly to the bone on either side of the fracture site as is necessary, then wrapped with several layers of Hexcelite while an assistant holds the bones in alignment. If the Hexcelite starts to harden before you are ready, a hair dryer will soften it up again so you can work with it. ? Pat Redig, D.V.M, (From AFA Seminar) IME 80 . . IN REGARD TO IME 39t I feel it is misleading to say that the incubation period for VVND can be up to 400 days. It is more correct to say that the birds may be sub-clinical carriers of the disease, and have been known to intermittantly shed the virus up to 400 days. ? Daryl Johnson, D.V.M. IME 81 . . IN REGARD TO IME 30, regarding presence of micro filaria in peripheral blood smears of cockatoos. I have observed same in several species: lessers, and greater sulfur crests, albas, and moluccans. Adults are abdominal filariids and have not been observed to cause much irritation if any. Years ago we found peripheral microfilaria in Indian Gray Francolia partridges and at post mortem discovered a true heartworm. These were subsequently identified as Paronchocera narsoletti (Sp?). I have not had occasion to treat birds for this. ? Allen Miyahara, D.V.M. IME 82 . . IN REGARD TO IME 44, we have found face mites also in the following species: Lady Gouldian finches and ringneck parakeets. ? Allen Miyahara, D.V.M. IME 83 . . I have successfully used equal parts 2% crystal violet and DMS0 for treatment of oral candidiasis which was refractory to conventional nystatin treatment. Kenneth Fletcher, D.V.M. IME 84 . . All hospitalized birds in my practice are force fed a mixture of NutricalR, powdered soybean milk, HiProtein baby cereal and Suprapreen , 2-4 times daily. ? JonEsposito, D.V.M. IME 85 -In my experience and opinion, IM injections in small birds (i.e. budgies) cause too much tissue trauma. I now administer all medications to budgies P.O. Budgies can be easily medicated by putting medication a drop at a time at the commissure of the beak where there is an opening even when the beak is closed. Then hold the bird upright so he can swallow. ? JonEsposito, D.V.M.</page><page sequence="7">-11 IME 86 . . I think you would do your clients a favor if you would give them advice on what to look for in buying a cage I have had bad experiences with several. In one, the bars were too far apart and a bird was found hanging by his neck. (Hagen B770) In a cage I had by Preview, the door, when closed, was not flush with the cage, and a bird lost his toe in the space between. While the large round wrought iron Mexican cages are attractive, if you notice, the space between the bars narrows to nothing, at the top and birds have gotten "stuck" there. ? Gloria Meeker IME 87 . . IN REGARD TO IME 54, Vibramycin may be an effective drug for the treatment of psittacosis, but as Dr. Fudge pointed out, it is not approved. At the San Diego meeting, I heard of a veter inarian being sued after he lost a valuable bird to psittacosis while treating with the "officially unapproved" drug. ? Greg Harrison, D.V.M. IME 88 . . DON'T BELIEVE EVERYTHING YOU READ: I recently induced acute death in a Mynah, and severe, but non-fatal convulsions in a cockatoo with Levamisole injectible, 13.6$. The birds, which harbored Ascaridi'a and Capillarids, were in otherwise good health, and were weighed carefully. The medication was administered S.C. at a dose of 40 mg/kg- This dose, which I had used successfully in the past, is given in at least 5 current references. A hasty phone consultation with Dr. Susan Clubb of Pet Farm, Miami, revealed that she, too, had had similar bad experiences at this dose level, and recommends the use of oral Levamisole (5 ml/ gal. water). If this dose is as toxic as it seems, how did it get so widely promulgated in the literature??? Do the people that recommend this dose actually use it? Have they observed any untoward reactions? ? Richard Smith, D.V.M. (Ed. note: In the very first Newsletter, IME 1, Greg Harrison reported his recommendation of 10 cc/gallon of water as the only source of drinking water for 24 hours for worming psittacines. In IME 40, Keven Flammer reported of the necessity of tubing the Levamisole into the crop at the dose of 15 mg/kg for Australian parakeets that normally don!t drink much water.) IME 89 CASE REPORT . . An Unusual Cause for Regurgitation in a Parakeet A 3 year old parakeet was presented to the clinic for vomiting which had begun 2 weeks prior and was getting progressively worse. The animal was depressed, puffy but was still eating and passing droppings. A complete history ruled out physiological regurgitation and grit irritation or impaction of the crop. No foreign bodies were palpable in the crop, and the crop wasn't thickened which can be a result of Candida or trichomonas infections. Since the bird was still passing droppings, a bowel obstruction was ruled out. A culture and sensitivity of the crop was taken and revealed a non-hemalytic streptococcus and a coagulase negative staphylococcus.</page><page sequence="8">-12 These organisms were not considered primary pathogens. The next diagnostic step offered was an X-ray with barium. The owner declined further diagnostic testing and after short course of antibiotics, the bird died. Gross autopsy of the bird revealed a thickened area of tissue near the proventricular-gizzard junction which was partially obstructing the lumen. Histopath on the tissue revealed a proven tricular adenocarcinoma. Although this is a rare condition, another parakeet that had been "going light" and had b^gm to regurgitate was found to have a proventricular adenocarcinoma also. The only other condition that this author has seen reported but hasn't found clinically is related to proventricular helminths which is another possible cause of vomiting in birds. ? Richard Nye, D.V.M. IME 90 CASE REPORT . . Proventricular Hyperplasia in a Parakeet Which Mimicked Thyroid Hyperplasia (Dysplasia) A 7 year old parakeet was presented with an expiratory squeak which was clinically suggestive of thyroid "dysplasia". The squeak is produced as the thyroid glands enlarge and displace the syrinx thus stretching the bronchi and narrowing the lumen. Physical examination revealed the bird to be in good flesh and clinically healthy except for the expiratory squeak. A tentative diagnosis of thyroid "dysplasia" was made and the bird was given 0.01 cc of Sodium iodide intramuscularly daily. Also 3-5 drops of Lugol's solution was added to the drinking water daily. The bird showed slight improvement in the first 72 hours of therapy, but the squeak was still present with exercise or excitement. Antibiotics were added to the treatment regime, .02 mg Tylan 50 injectable daily intramuscularly, and no improvement was seen. The owner believed the bird to be suffering and requested euthanasia. The gross autopsy revealed normally appearing thyroids but the proximal portion of the proventricuius was quite enlarged as it passed dorsal to the syrinx and between the left and right main bronchi. This enlargement was physically distending the bronchi thus leading to the expiratory squeak heard. Histopathology revealed the proventricular tissue to be hyperplastic, suggestive of chronic irritation. The etiology remained a mystery since no cultures were done, no parasites were found, and the bird rarely indulged in eating grit. ? Richard Nye, D.V.M. IME 91 . . Differential Diagnosis of Avian Diarrhea Polyuria needs to be differentiated from diarrhea. It can occur due to increased fruit intake, certain drugs, excitement (car ride to clinic), metabolic disorders, and infectious disease. The fecal component will be well formed when excreted, while the urates will be usually diluted. Loose stools, a non-medical condition, can be due to excite ment, change of diet, and increased fluid intake. Bacterial agents tend to be the most common cause of diarrhea. The fecal component will often change from dark to light green. In parakeets, the color will go from black to green. Some strains will cause the production of excess intestinal fluid, notably Klebsiella and some E. coli. Severe hemorrhagic enteritis can occur, causing black, tarry feces. Psittacosis has been said to produce lime-green feces; this is true in some cases.</page><page sequence="9">Antibiotics can cause diarrhea, by alteration of normal gut flora. Yeast (Candida) overgrowths can occur. Nematode parasites, when causing clinical disease, will cause diarrhea. Starch granules, urate crystals, and plant material can be mistaken for parasite ova in a fecal exam. In parakeets and cockatiels, a bacterial diarrhea, non-responsive to tested drugs, should be checked for GiarcLia. In large aviary outbreaks, euthanize a severely affected bird and perform a wet-mount of small intestinal contents. In living birds, the feces are sometimes light yellow; occasionally brownish. The wet-mount should be examined immediately under oil, with a saline diluent. Acute lead poisoning can cause neurological signs, enteritis, and melena. WND is a possibility in the smuggled bird. X-ray will show very radio-dense particles in the crop, prove ntricuius, and gizzard. Sources include weighted bird toys, grouting, stained glass art, and old paint. The erythrocytes don't usually show stippling, but a marked increase in immature cells is often present. Pancreatic exocrine deficiency seems to be rare. A mynah which had a one-year history of diarrhea was found to have pancreatic adenocarcinoma. Certain types of chronic liver disease can be associated with diarrhea. ?Alan Fudge, D.V.M. IME 92 . . Feather Parasites Retailers sell large quantities of products to treat feather ectoparasites. The sprays are often pyrethrins. The mite protectors, hung in cage, contain paradichlorobenzene, the active ingredient in moth balls. In actual infestations, they don't seem to work. Their use in prevention of the unlikely infestation.*. is unnecessary. Mites are apparently quite rare. I have seen four cases of feather lice in the past year. All were cockatiels, from infected aviaries. Carbaryl dust (5??) is placed in a paper bag. The bird is placed in the bag, with head sticking out, then "shake and bake". Repeat in two weeks. ? Alan Fudge, D.V.M. IME 93 . . In addition to a thorough physical exam, to certify the good health of a recently purchased bird, I require diagnostic tests: 1. bacterial culture and sensitivity, 2. fecal parasite exam, J. psittacosis swab, and 4. diagnostic blood panel (Veterinary Reference Lab), The cost can be considerable, but so is the replacement value of many of the birds. If the first three are negative and the panel is normal, one has a very high index of reliability that no pre-existing health problems are present. This thorough screening would be the equivalent to a soundness exam in a horse: certification in writing that everything is normal. ? Alan Fudge, D.V.M. IME 94 REGARDING IME 63, I have had problems offering just Keet Life alone to budgies and finches. Both species get constipated, which seems to be helped with the addition of a tiny amount of greens. Finches will literally starve to death if they are not introduced to Keet Life a little at a time as Dr. Cooper suggested. Breeders have complained, however, of poor breeding results and abnormal behavior if small birds were given both Keet Life and tetracycline in the water. On the other hand, they have reported positive results following preventative treatment with one or the</page><page sequence="10">-an other: increased fertility, increase in number of birds laying and number of eggs, improvement in general health condition, better food efficiency, increased growth and vigor of young. Breeders routinely feed Keet Life in their aviaries for a 1-2 week period each year prior to the breeding season. The dose of Keet Life consumed may vary with the temperature, humidity, rain, type of bird, other food or water sources available. ? Greg Harrison, D.V.M. IME 95 . Eosinophilia in a pet bird's WBC is often correlated with parasite infestation. This is especially true in cockatoos which often harbor tapeworms which rarely show on fecals. A dog/ cat dose of Yomesan will often produce a myriad of tapeworms, which results in disappearance of the eosinophils. Eosinophilia is also often seen with blood parasite problems, as well. ? Walter Rosskopf,Jr., D.V.M. IME 96 . . Adrenal insufficiency may occur during a septicemic disease (temporary involvement) or may be chronic as the result of damage from many disease syndromes. Treatment (which may be short term in acute septicemia) includes the use of physiologic replacement or supplemental adrenal hormones in the water or by injection. Water treatment involves the use of Florinef 0.1 mg (1/4 - 1 tab/4 oz.), Winstrol 2 mg (1/4 - 1 tab/4 oz.), and injectable dexamethasone in the water (2 mg/cc - 0.10 cc - 0.20 cc/4 oz.). Cases are monitored and doses titrated by serial blood testing. Appropriate antibiotics, vitamins, electrolytes, etc. are used for the inciting disease, concurrently. ? Walter Rosskopf, Jr., D.V.M. IME 97 . . When, handling avian blood for laboratory analysis, centrifugation and separation of red cells from the plasma is necessary to avoid artifacts in the microhematocrit system (using heparinized tubes). A typical example follows: Centrifuged Sulfur Crested Sample from same bird, Cockatoo Blood sent to lab Uncentrifuged but refrig with red cell portion discarded: erated, sent in 24 hrs. late Potassium 3-4 18.9t Sodium 136 127 ^ Glucose 250 191 * LDH 290 410 * Total Protein 3-5 4.1t ? Walter Rosskopf, Jr., D.V.M. IME 98 . . Very low white blood cell counts in birds may be associated with viremias or overwhelming septicemias. ? Walter Rosskopf, Jr., D.V.M. ************************ (Ed. note: My apologies to Dr. J.E. (James) Grimes of Texas A&amp;M University for incorrectly printing his first name as Jerry.) IF A FRIEND OR COLLEAGUE IS INTERESTED IN JOINING A.A.V. , HAVE THEM WRITE TO: Adina Rae Freedman, P. 0. Box 2991 East Northport, NY 11731 OR CALL: (5l6) 488-5183</page></plain_text>