<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 17(1-2): 159-172, 1993 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest Interspecific relationships of herbs in a sessile oak (Quer cus petraea) stand1 T. Standovár Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, L. Eötvös University, Ludovika tér 2., Budapest H-1083, Hungary Keywords: Character ranking, Community structure, Interspecific association, Spatial scales. Abstract: Community structure was studied by analysing interspecific relationships of herbaceous species in a sessile oak stand. Groups of species were searched for to be able to characterize previously distinguished vegetation types. The study was carried out using presence/absence data collected from sampling units that represent two different spatial scales (156 m2 quadrats and 3.14 m2 circular plots). In search for characteristic species groups, the species were classified using Euclidean distance. The obtained clusters reflect mainly the number of occurrences rather than habitat preferences. Three methods of reducing species number for further analyses, i.e. eliminating the not characteristically behaving species, are discussed. The exclusion of only the rare and the most abundant species was not satisfactory, since there are some relatively rare species with specific and interpretable spatial behaviour. The use of information criterion in this case ranked the species solely according to their relative frequencies. Species were ranked most sensibly by measuring the level of overall non-independence (determined by pairwise chi2 test of independence). Pairwise interspecific association was studied for the selected species at both spatial scales. The two species groups distinguished using the larger scale data set reflect community-level distribution patterns. The first is characteristic of those parts of the area where herbs indicate the driest and most acidic habitat (e.g. Visearía vulgaris ; Carex digitata, Campanula persici/olia, Hieracium lachenalii, Luzula albida, Trifolium medium, Veronica officinalis). On the other hand the common characteristic of species belonging to the second group is their absence from these parts. The acidophilous species described above showed similar interspecific relationships when the smaller scale data set was analysed. Using these data, a more detailed description of interspecific relationships was given for the species that belonged to the second species group. Most importantly positive links between some Fagetalia species (Dentaria bulbifera, Lathyrus vernus, Asperula odorata) and some disturbance tolerating weeds (Geranium robertianum, Chaerophyllum temulum, Galium aparine, Urtica dioica, Campanula rapunculoides) were shown. Nomenclature: Soó, R. &amp; Kárpáti, Z. 1968. Nôvényhatározó II. Tankônyvkiadó, Budapest. Introduction In plant ecological investigations the ultimate goal is to understand the factors that regulate the spatio-temporal distribution and abundance of plant populations (Krebs 1975, Begon, Harper &amp; Townsend 1986). According to the "general phytometer theory" (Juhász-Nagy 1970, 1986) all effective (i.e., limiting, in the Liebigean sense) ecological factors report themselves in the phen- etic behaviour of populations. This means that all plant populations and plant properties can have indicative value. These ideas were implicitly supported by classical phytosociological schools, for they claimed that individual stands of certain associations occur under specific environmental conditions, i.e., they 1 Vôlgyfó Studies No. 3. This paper is the third in a series presenting the results of a research programme carried out in a Sessile Oak (Quercus petraea) forest at Völgyfö, Bükk Mts., Hungaiy.</page><page sequence="2">160 Standovár: Interspecific relationships of herbs indicate the quality of their habitats (Soó 1965, Westhoff &amp; Maarel 1978, Whittaker 1962, 1978). This train of thought has led to the recognition of mutual relationships between vegetation units (community types) and the environment. The ef- forts to uncover this type of relationships can face difficulties in cases, where: - we study stands under human impacts, which have changed the composition of vegetation; - our interest is at a smaller spatial scale; - we study not only 'typical' patches of a stand. Even under these circumstances elements of an in- homogeneous, mosaic-like site can be indicated by distinguishing vegetation types by their floristic composition of the herb layer. Once the types have been recognized, they can be characterized by non-floristic descriptors of the species (Feoli 1984). If these descriptors reflect some environ- mental requirements of the species, their use can give a rough information on the habitat charac- teristics of the respective patch. This is a widely accepted practice for comparing different com- munity types (cf. characterization of communities by ecological indicator value spectra of species, e.g. Ellenberg 1988). This work was motivated by the persuasion that the principles described above can be used for describing smaller scale vegetation patterns and for indicating within-stand-scale site inhomo- geneity in a managed seminatural forest stand. As part of the Völgyfö Project, vegetation types with different floristic composition were distin- guished, and they were described using non-floris- tic descriptors of species (Standovár 1988, 1993). To characterize the vegetation types obtained, in- terspecific relationships are analyzed in terms of characteristic species assemblages. Ecological in- terpretation for some of these assemblages is also given. Materials and methods Study area This study has been carried out in a 90-year-old sessile oak stand of 5.5 hectares situated near Völgyfö in the Bükk National Park, Northern Hungary (48°58' N 20°30' E). Elevation ranges from 450 to 600 m above sea level. The bedrock is Triassic dark grey shale with 30° inclination and limestone intercalation (Balogh 1963). Because of possible erosion of shale, at the highest part of the area limestone is the soil forming bedrock. This change in bedrock is reflected in soil types as well. The top of the hill is covered with rendzina, while at other parts differently eroded forms of il- luviated brown forest soil occur. The range of pH also reflects this difference in bedrock, it ranges from 4.7 to 6.8 in the top layer (0-10 cm), from 4.2 to 5.7 at 20-30 cm depth. Because of the lack of meteorological station, the climate can only be estimated by presenting the climate diagrams (Fig. 1) of two stations from other parts of the Bükk. Though Eger is located only 13 km from the study area its climate might be more continental, since it lies at the south- western foothills of the Biikk. On the other hand Bánkút is situated -in the highlands of the Bükk Mountains, so its climate is more humid and cooler than that of the study area. Figure 1. Climate diagrams of Eger (left) and Bánkút (right).</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 161 The 5.5 ha area is covered by a nearly pure, even- aged sessile oak (Quercus petraea) stand of mostly coppice-origin, which is strongly affected by oak dieback. The top of the hill is covered by turkey oak ( Quercus cerris). The stand was fenced around in 1982 to keep red deer, roe deer and wild boar out of the area to make regeneration and plantation possible. Seed- lings and shrubs grew intensively in the past ten years partly as a result of the gaps opened by oak dieback and because of the lack of browsing after the area had been fenced. A more detailed des- cription of the area is given in Standovár (1993). Data Two data sets were used. One (referred to as quadrat data) contains presence/absence data of 148 herb species collected from 354 contiguous 12.5x12.5 m quadrats covering the whole area. The other is a result of a stratified random sampling aimed at describing the vegetation types distin- guished by clustering the quadrat data (Fig. 2). Circular sampling plots with 1 meter radius were randomly distributed within ten 25x25 sampling plots (Fig. 3). This second data set (referred to as small circular-plot data) contains presence-ab- sence data of 120 herbaceous species occurring in the 290 sampling circular units. Models and considerations A straightforward continuation of distinguishing vegetation types is to search for species groups characterizing them. This is usually done by clas- sifying species by the similarities in their 'choices' from the quadrats. The species are studied in the ecological space, where each axis represents a sample area, and the species are points in this space (Goodall 1963, Williams and Lambert 1961). Any ecological groups of species would be represented by clusters of points in this geometric model. An alternative way of studying interspecific relationships is to test pairwise statistical indepen- dence of species. By giving some measure of inter- Figure 2. Distribution of the 4 vegetation types obtained by hierarchical classification. Figure 3. The locations of the ten 25x25 m sampling plots.</page><page sequence="4">162 Standovár: Interspecific relationships of herbs specific association one can study and interpret the obtained structures. Most analyses including classification itself can be improved if the number of variables is reduced by eliminating unimportant ones. There might be many species without specific spatial behaviour within the study area. These species obstruct the recognition of species groups with similar dis- tributional patterns reflecting somehow similar environmental requirements. A frequently used way of reducing species number is to exclude rare species from the analyses, since it is assumed that their presence in any quadrat is statistically irrelevant. On the other hand there are arguments for eliminating too abundant species as well, since their presence gives no infor- mation on other species or on environmental in- homogeneities within the study area. Since no estimate of species importance was made, the differences in species importance can be followed by comparing the results of the sam- plings at the two different scales (presence/ab- sence in 156 m2 versus 3.14 m2 plots). Species with higher importance (abundance and/or dominance) are more likely to be included in smaller sampling units. These scales are not necessarily the best possible for representing different patterns of the vegetation, but these are the scales for which data are available at this stage. In the case of presence/absence data, the indepen- dence of species pairs can be easily tested by cal- culating chi2 for 2x2 contingency tables. As Goodall (1973) stressed, this analysis only tests the assumption that the distribution of the two species is independent. In most cases it is much more interesting to express the degree of associa- tion. As most classical works (e.g. Goodall 1973, Greig-Smith 1983) emphasize, interspecific cor- relation, or in the case of binary data interspecific association, is dependent on the quadrat size used. So, the results from different scales may be dif- ferent both in strength and direction. In this particular case positive association of species on the larger scale (156 m2 units) most likely reflects similarities in environmental re- quirements. On the other hand some biological in- teractions between species might be touched upon by studying interspecific association in the 3.14 m2 plots. My aim is to search for positively associated groups of species, and to find the biological back- ground of these groups. Methods The species were classified by the incremental sum of squares method with Euclidean distance as resemblance function. The analyses were per- formed using the HMCL2A program of the SYN- TAX III package (Podani 1988). To assist the selection of species, rank-abundance (or better to say rank-frequency) curves were con- structed. A character ranking technique using an informa- tion criterion (Orlóci 1976) was also applied. This procedure is suitable for ranking binary variables by their contribution to the mutual information. For these calculations the RANKINF program of the SYN-TAX III package (Podani 1988) was used. In search for species whose distributional patterns show the highest level of dependence from all other species, pairwise tests of indepen- dence were used for all species pairs in both data sets. The species were ranked by calculating the sum of 147 and 119 chi2 values obtained by pair- wise tests of independence in the two data sets respectively (Williams &amp; Lambert 1959). Chi2 tests of independence for all possible species pairs were carried out for both 'sieved' data sets. For expressing the degree of association Pearson's contingency coefficient C (Conover 1980) was cal- culated / 2 '1/2 C = l-X. X2 + N Pairwise associations were summarized in plexus graphs, in which relations were classified accord- ing to levels of C. The ecological characteristics of the species groups distinguished were described in terms of ecological indicator values of species. T (tempera- ture optimum), W (humidity optimum), R (acidity optimum) indicator values were used after Zólyomi et al. (1967): T - [thermophobic (1) to thermophilic (7) + indifférent (0)]; W - [xerophilous (1) to hygrophilous (11) + indif- ferent (0)]; R - [acidophilic (1) to basophilic (5) + indifferent (0)].</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 163 Results and discussion Classificatory approach Classification of the 148 species that occurred in the quadrat data resulted 3 clusters. They reflect mainly the number of occurrences and not the similarities in the choices of places. The first cluster contains species that occur in more than 200 quadrats (3 exceptions), the second contains species with intermediate frequencies, whereas the third contains the rare species. Essentially similar results were obtained for the 120 species that oc- curred in the 290 3.14 m2 circular plots. These results are not satisfactory since the aim of these classifications was to recognize species groups with similar spatial behaviour, not with similar frequencies. Character ranking Fig. 4 shows rank-abundance curves for the two data sets. There are marked differences between the two samples. In the quadrat data (presence/ab- sence in 156 m2 quadrats) there are relatively few rare species. From the 148 species there are only 30 species with frequencies less than 1%, whereas about 100 species with 5% or higher relative fre- quencies. In this case the elimination of rare species (&lt;1%) would not help too much. Similar conclusion can be drawn for the small circular- plot data, in which about 75% of the species occur in more than 1% of the 290 circular plots. In this sample (presence/absence in 3.14 m2 plots) the importance of species with frequencies between 1% and 5% is much higher than in the previous case. There are not as many frequent species (&gt;50%) in this sample as in the quadrat data (7 out of 120 and 32 out of 148). These findings are in good agreement with prior expectations since this small circular-plot data set represents the real dominance structure of the vegetation much bet- ter than the first one. Besides, there is another reason for not selecting the species only by their relative importance in the sample. This selection would not reflect species' distributional specificity Figure 4. Rank-abundance diagrams for the two data sets: teft-148 species, 354 12.5x12.5 m quadrats; right - 120 species, 290 3.14 m2 sampling circles. Figure 5. Relationship between rank, based on contribution to mutual information, and the number of occurrences: left - in 354 156 m2 quadrats; right - in 290 3. 14 m2 sampling circles.</page><page sequence="6">164 Standovár: Interspecific relationships of herbs with either other species or environmental in- homogeneity. As Fig. 5 shows, by information criterion the species were ranked solely according to their rela- tive frequencies. The differences between the two figures simply result from the contrast between the rank-abundance curves of the two data sets. This explains why I used another technique for selecting 'important' species. Having completed all the tests of pairwise in- dependence the species were ranked by the sum of chi2 values. As Fig. 6 shows, these results seem to combine the effects of textural characteristics of the samples and the distributional behaviour of species. The former would result that rare and ex- tremely frequent species tend to have high ranks (low importance), whereas species with inter- mediate frequency high importance (cf. Fig. 5). The specificity of the distributional behaviour of the species modifies this general tendency. This is why there are frequent or rare species with low ranks and some median species have high ranks in both samples. All these findings suggest that species ranking based on the sum of chi2 might give sensible results. Fig. 7 is shown to assist in deciding the number of species to include for fur- ther studies. This figure shows the relationship between rank and sum of chi2 for each species in the two samples. To help the comparison of the two data sets a relative scale was used for display (xi/xmav). The maxima in the samples collected from 156 m2 and 3.14 m2 units were 1488.7 and 768.2, respectively. As Fig. 7 shows the trends are similar. The 20th species has about half the maxi- mal chi2 value in the respective sample. This in- tense decrease of sum of chi2 with rank is valid only for the first sixth of species. It is a rather sub- jective decision to decide where to cut these cur- ves, i.e. how many species to include in further analyses. For practical reasons I decided not to include more than 50 species from each sample. I selected Figure 6. Relationship between rank, based on the level of non-independence, and the number of occurrences: left - in 354 156 m2 quadrats; right - in 290 3.14 m2 sampling circles. Figure 7. Relationship between rank, based on the level of non-independence, and the sum of chi2: left - for 148 species using presence/absence data from 354 quadrats; right - for 120 species using presence/absence data from 290 sampling circles.</page><page sequence="7">Abstracta Botanica 17 ( 1993) 165 the species possessing a sum of chi2 value exceed- ing 0.3 of maximal chi2 in the respective sample. This gives about one-third of the species (50 and 38, respectively) in both cases. Interspecific associations Simple tests of independence resulted in sig- nificant departures from random expectation in many cases. It seemed to be impossible to handle sensibly all the relations in plexus graphs. In addi- tion there is a possibility that some of these sig- nificant relations are artefacts caused by chance alone, since too many tests were made (accumula- tion of type I error). This is the reason for accept- ing only the associations with high contingency coefficients. Matrices of pairwise interspecific associations are presented in Standovár (1993). They are available from the author on request. The strength of as- sociations is categorized on the basis of C values as follows: t No. of parallel Values of C lines in figures Quadrat data Small circular-plot data 1 3.0 C 2.5 2.5 ^ C ^ 2.0 2 3.5 &gt; C &gt; 3.0 3.0 &gt; C &gt; 2.5 3 C &gt; 3.5 C &gt; 3.0 Figure 8. Positive interspecific relations of the selected species from the quadrat data. Single line: 3.0 £ C £ 2.5; double line: 3.5 ^ C &gt; 3.0; triple line: C &gt; 3.5.</page><page sequence="8">166 Standovár: Interspecific relationships of herbs Table 1. Composition of species groups (data from 156 m2 quadrats) and their ecological indicator values. Species Species T W R Average group T W R 1/1 Erysimum odoratum 625 1/1 Linaria genistifolia 615 1/1 Visearía vulgaris 5 3 2 5.60 2.00 4.00 1/2 Carex digitata 553 1/2 Cytisus nigricans 642 1/2 Genista tictoria ssp. elatior 533 1/2 Lotus corniculatus 5 4 0 5.25 4.00 2.60 1/3 Calamagrostis arundinacea 542 1/3 Campanula persicifolia 543 1/3 Carex montana 543 1/3 Coronilla varia 534 1/3 Festuca heterophylla 543 1/3 Hieracium lachenalii 532 1/3 Lathyrus vernus 554 1/3 Luzula albida 542 1/3 Trifolium medium 533 1/3 Veronica chamaedrys 544 1/3 Veronica officinalis 5 4 2 5.00 3.81 2.90 II /1 Anthericum ramo s um 534 II/l Betonica officinalis 530 II/l Brachypodium pinnatum 524 II/l Iris gramínea 625 II/l Origanum vulgare 534 II/l Primula veris 535 II/l Pulmonaria mollissima 544 II/l Scutellaria altissima 644 II/l Veronica teucrium 5 3 4 5.22 3.00 4.25 II /2 Helleborus purpurascens 544 II/2 Linaria vulgaris 533 II/2 Melica uniflora 544 II/2 Stellaria holostea 5 5 3 5.00 4.00 3.50 II/3 Alliaria petiolata 544 II /3 Cardamine impatiens 573 II /3 Carex divulsa 540 II /3 Chaerophyllum temulum 554 II/3 Cruciata ciliata 533 II /3 Cynanchum vincetoxicum 634 II/3 Galium aparine 553 II /3 Geranium robertianum 5 6 3 II /3 Geum urbanum 544 II /3 Hypericum hirsutum 553 II /3 Polygonum dumetorum 534 II/3 Senecio nemorensis 563 II /3 Urtica dioica 554 II/3 Viola silvestris 5 5 3 5.07 4.64 3.46 Pearson's C has the disadvantage that the maxi- mum is not necessarily 1. For these data the maxi- mum was 0.7071. Quadrat data (156 m2 plots). Fig. 8 shows the plexus graph for the quadrat data (354 quadrats 148 species). As it is easy to recognize, there are two large species groups (c.f. Table 1). It is worth mention- ing at the very beginning of the interpretation of these species groups that the results presented in Fig. 8 reflect distributional similarities only. These positive and negative associations indicate whether the two species in question occur in similar or different parts of the study area. Only the significance of their co-occurrence is tested. The common feature of species belonging to Group I is their nearly consistent absence from</page><page sequence="9">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 167 Figure 9. Box and whisker plots showing the relative frequencies of species groups in the four vegetation types.</page><page sequence="10">168 Standovár: Interspecific relationships of herbs vegetation type 2 (cf. Fig. 2). A notable exception is the relatively widespread Lathyrus vernus (in 247 quadrats). The common characteristic of the species in Group II is their absence from vegeta- tion type 4. There are only positive relations within the groups, whereas only negative ones bet- ween them. If one investigates the relationships within each group, it is possible to detect a few subgroups of species with more inside-subgroup than between- subgroups relations. Though these subgroups are not as distinct as the main groups themselves, they deserve further investigation. In Group I three subgroups can be distinguished. There is a trend of increasing frequency from 1/1 to 1/3. 1/1 contains the most restricted species {Vis- caria vulgaris, Linaria genistifolia, Erysimum odoratum). As Table 1 shows these species have high T, very low W and extreme R indicator values. By extreme I mean that both acidophilus and calcicole species belong to this subgroup, which may be the result of limestone intercalation in the acidic grey shale. .If this is true, we can describe this dry eroded habitat as a mosaic of slightly alkaline 'islands' in the 'ocean' of acidic shale. Subgroup 1/2 has a central role; it has positive links with both Subgroups 1/1 and 1/3. As Table 1 shows these species indicate moderately dry and acidic habitat. Subgroup 1/3 contains the most widespread species in this group. Their site indication is reasonably similar to that of the previous sub- group. I also distinguished three subgroups in Group II. Subgroup II/l is rich in calcicole or neutral species and most species indicate dry habitat. The other two subgroups are not very different regarding their ecological indicator values. They indicate slightly acidic and less dry habitat than Subgroup II/l. llie basis for separating them was similar as in the previous group. Subgroup II/2 has a central role in the sense that its species are associated positively with species in the other two subgroups, whereas species in Subgroup II/3 have links with each other and with species of Subgroup II/2. They have no direct connections to Subgroup II/l (cf. Fig. 8). Though there are no marked differences in ecological indicator values between these sub- groups, it is worth mentioning that in Subgroup II/3 one can find species that are characteristic of relatively undisturbed forests (e.g. Senecio Figure 10. Positive interspecific relations of selected species calculated from the whole small circle data. Single line: 2ižCž 2.0; double line:3.0 žC&gt; 2.5; triple line: C &gt; 3.0. Figure 11. Positive interspecific relations of selected species calculated from the whole small circle data. Single line: 2.5 &amp; C £ 2.0; double line:3.0 žC&gt; 2.5; triple line: C &gt; 3.0. Figure 12. Positive interspecific relations of selected species calculated from the whole small circle data. Single line: 25 ž C ï 2.0; double line:3.0 2: C &gt; 2.5; triple line: C &gt; 3.0.</page><page sequence="11">Abstracta Botanica 17(1993) 169 nemorensis, Viola silvestris, Geum urbanum) together with species of disturbed stands (Alliaria petiolata, Galium aparine, etc.). Graphical representation of the relationships be-tween vegetation types and species groups is given in Fig. 9. Small circular-plot data (3.14 m2 plots) - whole data set In the case of the small circular-plot data it is dif- ficult to draw a single plexus graph using all the relationships. Some 'compact' groups of species (more and/or stronger within than between group relationships) are described, instead. They are shown in Figs. 10-12. The most distinct group includes Luzula albida, Hieracium lachenalii, Campanula persicifolia, Veronica chamaedrys, Carex digitata, Genista tinctoria ssp. elatior and Trifolium medium (Fig. 10). These species behaved quite alike when they were studied on a much larger scale (in 156 m quadrats). This suggests that they not only prefer moderately dry and acidic patches of the area, but also grow in the adjacent neighbourhood of each other. Another reasonably compact group (Fig. 11) con- tains Scutellaria altissima, Chaerophyllum temu- lum, Galium aparine, Geum urbanum, Viola hirta, Geranium robertianum, Arabis turrita and Cruciata ciliata. It is difficult to find the common features of these species. Their ecological indicator values and their coenological characters are not similar. It can be stated, however, that most of these species are characteristic of somehow unstable or disturbed habitats. This is nicely supported by the fact that from the five therophytes present four belong to this group. The instability of the habitat may be caused by steep slopes, where uncon- solidated shallow soil contains high proportion of coarse materials, or by the creation of new gaps in the canopy as a result of oak-dieback. Fig. 12 shows a small group of species including Poa nemoralis, the most abundant species in the study area. All these species (Symphytum tube- rosum, Lathyrus vermis, Dentaria bulbifera, Melìttis grandiflora and Viola silvestris) are characteristic of slightly damp closed forests (Fagetalia and Querceto-Fagetea species). Although there are many more strong positive relationships, it is difficult to find more compact groups of species. There are too many links be- tween reasonable groups of species. It must be admitted and emphasized here that positive relationships might result from that the data collected from 25x25 m sampling plots representing different vegetation types, were analysed together. If certain species are absent from similar parts of the study area (i.e. from similar 25x25 m plots) simply the great number of double absences in the contingency table itself can cause positive association. Subsamples of the small circular-plot data were analysed individually to eliminate these possible artefacts. Small circular-plot data (3.14 m2 plots) - Sub- samples. Subsamples were separated on the basis of the classification of the 290 small relevés (Standovár 1993). The data of plots 1-4-7, 2-5-6 and 8-9-10 (cf. Fig. 3) were selected for these analyses. All species with at least ten occurrences in the sub- Figure 13. Positive (solid line) and negative (dashed line) interspecific relations of selected species calculated from the subsample (plots 2-5-6) of the small circle data. Single line: 2.5 ž C ž 2.0; double line:3.0 iC&gt; 2.5; triple line: C &gt; 3.0.</page><page sequence="12">170 Standovár: Interspecific relationships of herbs Figure 14. Positive (solid line) and negative (dashed line) interspecific relations of selected species calculated from the subsample (plots 2-5-6) of the small circle data. Single line: 2.5 a C s 2.0; double line:3.0 a C &gt; 2.5; triple line: C &gt; 3.0 samples were included. Matrices of these inter- specific associations are also given in Standovár (1993), or available on request. If one investigates the associations in the first sub- sample, it is easy to see that the results reflect similar effects (great number of double absences) as in the case of the whole small circular-plot data. The classification of relevés joined the 3.14 m2 circles of plots 1-4-7 (c.f. Fig 3), although there are species, which occur in plots 1 and 4 (e.g. Care, t digitata, Campanula persicifolia, Trifolium medium), while others only or mostly in plot 7 (e.g. Anthericum ramosum, Primula veris, Heracleum sphondylium). This is why the strong positive relationships can only be interpreted as in the case of the whole small circular-plot data. The analysis of the quadrat data (subgroups II/2 and 3) and the whole small circular-plot data (Figs. 10-12) showed some connections between species of slightly damp closed forests and of dis- turbed sites. To see the details, the relationships in the second subsample (data from plots 2-5-6 in Fig. 3) are presented. As Fig. 13 shows, the involved Fagetalia and Quer- ceto-Fagetea species can be divided into two groups. Viola silvestris, Geum urbanum, Pul- monaria officinalis, Hypericum hirsutum, Sanícula europaea have positive dependence among each other, but with no disturbance tolerating species. On the other hand perennial geophytes and hemiciyptophytes like Dentaria bulbifera, Lathyrus vermis, Asperula odorata are positively associated with disturbance tolerating therophytes like Geranium robertianum, Chaerophyllum temulum, Galium aparine, or hemicryptophytes like Urtica dioica, Campanula rapunculoides. The dissimilar behaviour of these groups is emphasized by the negative associations such as Asperula odorata- Pulmonaria officinalis, Geum urbanum-Urtica dioica, Geum urbanum-Lathyrus vernus, etc. Another interesting result is that in spite of the scale and the relative homogeneity of the vegeta- tion sampled (plots 2-5-6), Luzula albida, Veronica officinalis, Veronica chamaedrys are negatively as- sociated with many of the species mentioned in the previous paragraph (Fig. 14). In several former analyses these species (with others) indi- cated the most acidic and relatively dry parts of Figure 15. Interspecific relations of selected species calcu- lated from the subsample (plots 8-9-10) of the small circle data. Triple line: C &gt; 3.0.</page><page sequence="13">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 171 the study area. In this case, as Fig. 14 shows, they have positive links with species either possessing low (3) R indicator values, or lower W indicator values than it is characteristic of species distin- guishing vegetation type 2 (cf. Fig 2). The separated analysis of interspecific association of species occurring in 3.14 m2 sampling circles in plots 8-9-10 (vegetation type 1) did not give easily interpretable results. If all the significant relations were considered, it would show a complicated pic- ture. Fig. 15 shows the strongest relations only (C &gt; 3.5). This 'skeleton' of interspecific relations shows the main preferences. Some of them are known from earlier analyses {Stellana holostea- Hellebonis purpur ascens, or Galium aparine- Chaerophyllum temulum-Scutellaria altis - sima-Saniçula europaea). Conclusions and further tasks Although I cannot explain the reasons for each case, it is worth mentioning that several pairwise relations changed direction during the spatial process (i.e. changing the scale of study). For ex- ample some of the positive links in Group II (Fig. 7) disappeared or turned to negative associations. As a rule it can be stated that positively linked species groups of the quadrat data reflect com- munity-level pattern, whereas by analysing sub- samples of the small circular-plot data infra- community patterns can be studied. The basic objective of the Volgyfõ Project has been to find some ways of interpreting herbaceous vegetation patterns to be able to make predictions about indicated site characteristics and about im- portant properties of the canopy layer. In this and earlier papers no direct comparisons were made. All the descriptions and interpretation of the species groups or vegetation types discussed were based on long-term experience about the average behaviour of the species. Real tests have not been made. Forthcoming papers will report the results of studying links between site humidity indication of herbs with measured soil moisture status and between herb and canopy layer patterns. Acknowledgements: Firstly I am grateful to Prof. T. Simon for supporting this work. Special thanks are due to Dr. K. Rajkai, who has always been ready for discussions and thorough criticism of the manuscript. I am also grateful to Dr. Z. Somogyi, Dr. J. Podani for useful discussions and criticism, and to L. Karas, Sz. Cserép, Dr. M. Kertész for their help in the field work. I am much obliged to M. Széll for the drawing of the plexus graphs and to J. Szabó for the preparation of the maps. Many thanks are due to B. Varga and J. Duska, the employees of the local forestry commission for making this study possible and for their kind help during the whole work. The financial support given by OMFB-OKKFT, OTKA (No. 2050) grants and the Hungarian Scientific Foundation is greatly ack- nowledged. References Balogh, K. 1963. A Bükk-hegység és kôrnyékének földtani térképe 1:100 000 méretarányban. Magyar Állami Földtani Intézet, Budapest. Begon, M., Harper, J., and Townsend, C.R. 1986. Ecology: In- dividuals, Populations and Communities. Blackwell, Ox- ford. Conover, W. J. 1980. Practical Nonparametric Statistics 2nd ed. Wiley, New York. Feoli, E. 1984. Some aspects of classification and ordination of vegetation data in perspective. Stud. Geobot. 4:7-21. Goodall, D. W. 1963. The continuum and the individualistic as- sociation. Vegetatio 11:297-316. Goodall, D. W. 1973. Sample similarity and species correlation. In: Whittaker, R.H. (ed.): Ordination and Classification of Vegetation. Handbook of Vegetation Science Part V. pp. 105-56. Junk, The Hague. Goodall, D. W. 1978. Numerical Classification. In: Whittaker, R. H. (ed.), 1978. Classification of Plant Communities pp. 248-84. Junk, The Hague. Greig-Smith, P. 1983. Quantitative Plant Ecology (third edi- tion). Blackwell, Oxford. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1970. Egy operativ ôkológia hiánya, szükséglete. MTABiol. Oszt. Közl., 12:441-64. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1986. Egy operativ ökolögia hiánya, szükséglete és feladatai. Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest. Krebs, C.J. 1978. Ecology: The experimental Analysis of Dis- tribution and Abundance. Second Edition. Harper and Row, New York. Orlóci, L. 1976. Ranking characters by an information criterion. Journal of Ecology 64:417-419. Podani, J. 1988. SYN-TAX III. User's manual. Abstracta Botanica 12suppl. 1:1-183. Soó, R. 1965. Nôvényfôldrajz. (Plant geography), làn- kônyvkiadó, Budapest. Soó, R. &amp; Kárpáti, Z. 1968. Nôvényhatározó II. Tánkonyvkiadó, Budapest. Standovár, T. 1988. Vegetation pattern in a Sessile Oak (Quer- cus petraea) stand. Abstracta Botanica 12:189-206. Standovár, T. 1993. Vegetation studies and their applications to site indication in a Sessile Oak Forest. Thesis, manuscript. Westhoff, V &amp; Maarel, E. van der, 1978. The Braun-Blanquet Approach. In: Whittaker, R. H. (ed.), 1978. Classification of Plant Communities, pp. 287-399. Junk, The Hague. Whittaker, R.H. 1962. Classification of natural communities. Botanical Review 28:1-239.</page><page sequence="14">172 Standovár: Interspecific relationships of herbs Whittaker, R. H. (ed.), 1978. Classification of Plant Com- munities. Junk, The Hague. Williams, W. T. and Lambert, J. M. 1959. Multivariate analysis in plant ecology. I. Association-analysis in plant com- munities. Journal of Ecology 47:83-101. Williams, W. T. and Lambert, J. M. 1961. Multivariate analysis in plant ecology. III. Inverse association-analysis. Journal of Ecology 49:717-729. Zólyomi, B., Baráth, Z., Fekete, G., J a ku es, P., Kárpáti, I., Kárpáti, V., Kovács, M. &amp; Máthé, 1. 1967. Einreinhung von 1400 Arten der ungarischen Flora in Ökologische Gruppen nach TWR-Zahlen. Fragmenta Botanica 4:101-142.</page></plain_text>