<plain_text><page sequence="1">Medicine IME 658 .. Potential Source of Lead One case of lead toxicity in our practice resulted from a bird biting through the plastic covering of exer cise weights and ingesting the lead from the weights. -- Leslie Gerson, DVM Miami, FL IME 659 .. Treatments for Problem Parsites in Passerines A number of passerines (various Mynah species, Chloropsls, Barbets, Pi ttas, Bulbuls, Birds-of-parad1se, etc.) have been treated for parasites with the following drugs and dosages: 1. CESTODE AND TREMATODE SPECIES Praziquantel: 7.4 mg/kg P.O. or S.Q. - one treatment. 2. COCCIDIA Sulfa/Trimethaprlm or Sulfa/Or metoprlm: 50 mg/kg daily x 5 days. Resistant cases sometimes respond to Sulfa/Pyrimethamine (Fansidar -Roche) dosed at 50 mg/kg sulfa P.O. - one treatment. 3. FILARIAL NEMATODES (CardiofHaria spp., Diplotriana spp) Ivermectin: 0.4 mg/kg I.M. or P.O. - one treatment appears clini cally effective. 4. PROYENTRICULAR NEMATODES (Pis pharynx spp., etc.) Levamisole: 20 mg/kg P.O. - one treatment every two weeks for con trol ; must control arthropod vectors. Scott B. C1t1no, DVM Metro Zoo, Miami, FL IME 660 .. Thyroid Responsive Feet Obese Amazons with chronic re curring pododermatitis may have low resting T^ levels. We have treated such birds with 0.1 mg L-thyroxIne per 2 oz drinking water daily (swee tened with Equal if necessary). With in 4-6 weeks, we have noticed a dra matic Improvement in the feet and the resting T^ levels are within the normal range. Theresa Parrott, DVM Pembroke Park, FL 22</page><page sequence="2">IME 661 .. Ceftazadine for Pseudomonas Therapy Ceftazadine (Fortaz - Galaxo Company) Is a new human pharmaceuti cal that has had a high degree of success in treating Pseudomonas aeru ginosa respiratory Infections in hu mans. It 1s the first cephalosporin manufactured with a high degree of effectiveness against this microor ganism. Because the toxicity poten tial was found to be very limited 1n human studies, we started using this drug 1n very limited trials in birds. In our limited experience with Amazons with positive Pseudomonas cultures from the respiratory tract (juveniles as well as adults), cefta zadine was administered at a dose of 75 mg/kg BID, given as a deep intra muscular injection in the breast muscle. (Occasionally, at least in people, its been reported that it - I causes some localized tissue Irrita tion.) We have used it up to 10 days without significant side effects except for a slight pasty change in the stool consistency. As the sole medication, the dosage appears to be effective against Pseudomonas, as evidenced by reculture results. The fact that it can be used as a single therapeutic without the addition of aminogylosides in young birds is particularly valuable. The drug comes in solid form. We reconstituted 1t, draw it up Into TB syringes and freeze It in the syringes until It's ready to be used. It is not a cost limiting drug due to the fact that it can be stored in a frozen form for a number of months. Trials are continuing. Leslie Gerson, DYM Miami. FL IME 662 .. Update on PTFE Publicity The publicity campaign on the danger of using polytetrafluoroethy lene (PTFE)-coated drip pans around birds (see IME 627) has resulted 1n withdrawal of these products by Du Pont and other U.S. manufacturers, however a number of PTFE-coated drip pans are still being Imported and sold under unfamiliar brand names. U.S. manufacturers are considering alternative coatings (e.g. silicone). Please continue to send case reports of polytetraf1uoroethylene toxicity 1n birds to: Peter Sakas, DYM 7278 Milwaukee Ave. Niles, IL 60648 IME 663 .. Organ Swelling from Fluid Administration From radiographs taken prior to and immediately following fluid ther apy, we have noticed that bolus ad ministration of intravenous fluids causes an immediate swelling of the liver and kidneys (10-15% 1n Amazons given 10 cc, to an apparent doubling in size in a small cockatoo given 30 cc). This further reinforces the recommendation that diagnostic radio logy should be done prior to any therapy so that reactions such as these are not mistaken for pathology. Greg J. Harrison, DVM Lake Worth, FL IME 664 .. Piperacillin / Amikacin Antimicrobial Therapy Using piperacillin (see IME 441) 1n conjunction with amikacin (see IME 374) for bacterial Infections has been extremely effective as a broad spectrum antimicrobial therapy. I have had good response against Pseu I domonas as well. Dosages of pipera cillin have been 0.1 mg/gm BID and amikacin can be used at low dosages of 0.01 mg/g BID. I have not had any clinical signs of nephrotoxicity from this dosage of amikacin. -- Greg Hurst, DVM Pompano Beach, FL IME 665 .. Sinus Flush to Supplement Treatment of Sinusitis As an alternate method of Infu sing the nares with chlorhexidlne (see also IME 231) we use a dilute solution of 2% chlorhexidlne and water in a syringe to flush through the nares of hospitalized birds with sinusitis, whether bacterial or fun gal in origin (3-5 cc for smaller birds and 10-20 cc for larger psitta cines). This approach can be used in conjunction with antimicrobial nebu lizatlon therapy and can be done several times during the hospitaliza tion period. Greg Hurst, DVM Pompano Beach, FL 23</page><page sequence="3">IME 666 .. Dispensing Nitrofurazone Water Mix We have had great success using n1 trof urazone concentrate (Furadn Water Mix - Norden Laboratories) 1n treating gram-negative infections that are susceptible to n1trofurazone sensitivity discs. For dispensing to owners, we measure out 2.1 grams of the nitrofurazone concentrate and dispense it in 5 dram vials. The owner 1s advised to dissolve the total contents of the vial Into one quart of distilled water and refrig erate. For the daily dose, one tea spoon of the diluted solution 1s mixed with one ounce drinking water. The treatment is continued for 10 to 14 days. We always repeat the Gram's stain and/or reculture at the end of the treatment period. Our success rate 1n treating uncomplicated sus ceptible Infections has been 85%. We have had only two cases where the owner did not follow directions and administered the undiluted solu tion in the drinking water. Both birds (Orange-winged Amazon and Blue fronted Amazon) became depressed, had severe diarrhea and markedly elevated SGOT values. Both birds recovered with symptomatic treatment. The re ported classic signs of seizures due to nitrofurazone overdose in birds were not seen. However, this 1s not appropriate therapy for lories and lorikeets. Leslie Gerson, DVM Miami, FL IME 667 .. Source of Isoflurane Many human hospitals will dis pense single bottles of Forane (trade name of Isoflurane 1n human medicine) to veterinarians when presented with a proper prescription and completion of the necessary hospital pharmacy paperwork. -- Leslie Gerson, DVM Miami, FL IME 668 .. Surgical Spears Small, pointed Weck-Cel Surgical Spears (Edward Week &amp; Company, Inc., Research Triangle Park, NC 27709; Catalog No. 8680) are useful for surgical absorption in areas too small for the use of cotton-tipped applicators -- Greg J. Harrison, DVM Lake Worth, FL IME 669 .. Inexpensive Modified Kirschner Apparatus for Tibiotarsal Fractures SUPPLIES (2) 23-20 ga. needles (depending on size of bird) (1) Telfa pad (1) Small, double thickness of "Cutter Cast" material (2) 1" x 2H x l/4"-l/2M pieces of 12 cc syringe case Zonas tape and small piece of Webril cotton METHOD 1. Sedate bird, remove feathers and scrub leg. 2. Drive a needle through both cortices of tlblotarsal bone, perpen dicular to long axis, one above frac ture and one below. Use hub of nee dle to direct pins and rotate while drilling. 3. Snip off hubs of needles. 4. Wrap leg with Telfa pad. 5. Apply Cutter Cast (cut to size) 2/3 around circumference of leg. Ends of the needles will pro trude through Telfa pad and Cutter Cast. The cast material forms the support for the fixation. 6. Wrap leg in Webril and cover with Zonas tape, 7. Cut syringe case pieces to size and place on lateral and medial sides of the leg to cover ends of the needles. This prevents needle migra tion and Injured fingers. Wrap with one layer Zonas to hold 1n place. I have repaired legs on seven birds (from Nanday Conure to Amazons) with this method with excellent re sults. It is Inexpensive, very stur dy, wel1-tolerated by the birds, and easy to remove 3-4 weeks later. Two birds had bilateral leg fractures and were perching and walking the next day. -- T1m Colbert, DVM Orlando, FL 24</page></plain_text>