<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 17(1-2): 197-206, 1993 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest 1 The origin of genetic systems E. Szathmáry2 &amp; J. Maynard Smith3 2 Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, L. Eötvös University, Ludovika tér 2, H- 1083 Budapest, Hungary . 3 School of Biological Sciences, The University of Sussex, Brighton, F almer, BN1 9QG, United Kingdom. Keywords: Heredity, Origin of life, Replicators, Units of evolution. Abstract: The origin of the earliest genetic systems in a prebiotic setting is considered. A brief survey of units of evolution and replicators is given, and the novel distinction of limited and unlimited hereditary replicators is introduced. Merits and pitfalls of the RNA world concept are reviewed. The possibility of autonomously evolving molecular ecosystems is raised, which hinges on the realisation of a self-replicating ribozyme. The RNA world must have been preceded by something simpler, perhaps what we call the "prebiotic pizza": evolving autocatalytic networks on mineral surfaces (mainly pyrite). Such cycles are limited hereditary replicators. Occasionally, macromutations and chemical symbioses could have given rise to evolutionary novelties. Population structure (genetic viscosity) of template populations (evolving in a subsequent phase of evolution) was surely important in the selection against selfish replicators. The appearance of protocells was the culmination of prebiotic evolution. Protocells are "symbionts" of three autocatalytic subsystems: a metabolic network, a genetic replicator, and an encapsulating membrane. Introduction The problem of the origin of life has fascinated many generations of mankind, and it is still un- solved. Life, even in its simplest manifestations, is a combination of (at least) two things. One is metabolism, whereby the internal chemical reac- tants of the system, through interactions with chemicals outside of it, produce more of the chemical network, as J.B.S. Haldane observed a long time ago. This system is a so- called dissipa- tive one: it cannot remain active without a con- tinuous energy consumption. Another aspect of this system is its capacity for homeostasis, whereby it preserves its activity even if outside conditions change (within certain limits of tolerance). The other thing which seems to be essential for life is the storage and use of genetic information. In cur- rent living beings, the ultimate storage device is DNA (there are some viruses which have RNA in- stead of DNA, but they do not qualify as living or- ganisms: they lack metabolism). Information is stored in digital form: the nucleotide sequence of the genes determine the amino acid sequence of the encoded proteins. Although it is true that in the long run the chemical constituents of DNA are turned over (spontaneous damage must be repaired), we may regard DNA as a non-dissipa- tive chemical object. As E. Schrödinger observed, the gene is an "aperiodic crystal" (in fact viruses can be crystallized from solution). Of course, in present-day living beings the two components, the metabolic and the genetic, are intricately coupled to each other. Metabolic reactions are catalyzed by the enzymes, the information for which is coded for by DNA DNA cannot be repaired or repli- cated without monomers supplied by metabolism. A crucial aspect of genetic information is that it is passed on from generation to generation. DNA is replicated in such a way that its nucleotide se- quence is largely preserved. When the DNA is 1 Simultaneously published in the 125th Anniversary issue of Természet Világa, Budapest.</page><page sequence="2">198 Szathmáry &amp; Maynard Smith: Origin of genetic systems Figure 1. "Crystal growth" in plywood models. Figure 2. Crystal growth from a more complicated seed. read in the offspring organism, this causes the in- side and outside structures of that organism to resemble those of the old one: there is a strong parent-offspring correlation in phenotypes. Units of evolution and replicators Genetics is a prerequisite for evolution by natural selection to occur. There are three necessary characteristic features of evolutionary units: Multiplication: If there is entity A, then it must give rise to more of the same. A simple example is when a mother cell divides into two daughter cells. Heredity: There are different kinds of entities A, B, C, etc. Through multiplication, each has to produce more A, B, and C objects, respectively. Variability: Heredity is not perfect. Sometimes (in- frequently) A produces A' entities, similar but not identical to itself. It may be the case that A' = B. The most common type of change is called muta- tion. If the different types of entity differ in their ability to survive and reproduce, then in a population of them evolution by natural selection can take place. In the absence of variability, selection would result in some kind of an end-state: in its presence evolu- tion may proceed indefinitely. Note that there is nothing in the above definition that would restrict the physico-chemical or biochemical realisation of evolutionary units: in fact, molecules, cells, organisms, and (rarely) even higher-level objects can qualify as such. Principles of multiplication and heredity are beautifully il- lustrated by the plywood models of the geneticist L.S. Penrose and his son, the theoretical physicist R. Penrose. In the inanimate world, the first example that comes to one's mind, resembling biological reproduction, is crystal growth. Using the plywood models, this is illustrated in Fig. 1. If we introduce a "seed" into the population of neutral units, then shaking the box in the horizontal plane will impart the tilt of the seed on neighbouring neutral units, and accidentally cause them to link to the seed: the crystal is growing. With a simple trick, alterna- tive stable seeds can be formed (Fig. 2) in the form of doubled units. There are four possible seed configurations, coming in two pairs. Members of the same pair are identical after rotation by 180°, but members of different pairs are mirror images of each other, hence they cannot be made identical by rotation. A and B type seeds give rise to A and B type crystals, respectively, illustrating the crys- tallisation of optically active chemicals, such as L- and D-sugars. But these models do not adequately illustrate the principle of biological reproduction;</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 199 for the latter, a minimal requirement is that the new units should become spatially separated from the parent. Again, a simple trick helps: omission of the hooks from one end of the units results in the reproduction of seeds (Fig. 3). The reproduction of the latter seeds is rather dif- ferent from replication of a short piece of DNA in several respects. One of them is that the latter fol- lows a semi-conservative mechanism, such as II - &gt; II + II. The case in Fig. 3 corresponds to II - -&gt; II + II. Solution of this problem is not simple, but rather rewarding. Three new elements are needed (i) an activating cam-lever (Fig. 4); (ii) double-hook units with the capacity for semi-con- servative reproduction (Fig. 5); and (iii) a block- ing device (Fig. 6). The essence is the separation of functions: (i) is able to activate without linking; (ii) can bind without activation; and (iii) ensures that no more than four units can come close together. The last device confers spatial separa- tion and individuality on the objects. The com- plete self-reproducing machinery is shown in Fig. 7. It is very interesting that relatively simple chemi- cals can function as reproducing units. One ex- ample was shown by G. von Kiedrowski: he used a short DNA-like molecule and its building blocks. Semi-conservative replication of this molecule is possible in solution. This was the first demonstra- tion of non-enzymatic template replication. A less conventional example was shown by J. Rebek. His molecule consists of two parts: an imide ester and an adenine-containing amine. The two parts form a j-shaped product. The structure of this molecule is such that it catalyses the formation of another j- Figure 3. Simple "reproduction". shaped molecule. After the reaction, the two molecules fall apart (Fig. 8). It is apparent that this reproduction is not semi- conservative, and is similar to that in Fig. 3. Figure 4. The cam-lever propagates activation by tilting! Figure 5. A system of hook and release. The addition of the third unit from the left causes the first two to unhook. Figure 6. The blocking device limits the number of hooked elements to four.</page><page sequence="4">200 Szathmáry &amp; Maynard Smith: Origin of genetic systems Figure 7. The operation of a complete, "semi-conservative" self-reproducing machine. Figure 8. Simple autocatatysis of a j-shaped molecule made of an imide-ester (lower molecule) and an adenine- containing amine (upper molecule). Figure 9. Alternative templates can be constructed by varying the amine's R group. The three alternatives are: - H, -COzCHīCiHs, -C02CH2(o-N02)CÍH4.</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 201 Note that there is no heredity in the examples shown: there are not different types, each of which reproduces itself. A non-conventional solution is the modification of the the original j-shaped molecule. Changing the R radical in the amine part of the molecule allows for the production of three different templates (Fig. 9). Each of them is capable of replication, although with different ef- ficiency. Replication is not exact: template C can catalyse the formation of product B, for example. Thus this system can store information, but not much. If we want to store more information, longer, DNA-like molecules are necessary. DNA, depending on its size, can store little or much information. The j-shaped molecules can store little information only, due to their structural properties. In order to account for this difference, we intro- duce the terms "unlimited" and "limited hereditary replicators". The term replicator has been sug- gested by R. Dawkins, for a genetically active unit whose structure is copied repeatedly. Limited hereditary replicators, owing to their structural peculiarities, can exist and be replicated in only a few stable states, whereas unlimited hereditary replicators can encode for a practically infinite set of varieties. The capacity of the latter can be il- lustrated by a few numerical examples (calculated by M. Eigen). A DNA chain, able to code for polypeptides consisting of 33 amino acids, is 99 nucleotide residues long. There are four different bases, of which one can construct 4" = IO60 nucleotide sequences. Sequences as long as 300 nucleotides can encode for polypeptides consist- ing of 100 amino acids. There are 20100 = 10130 possible such polypeptides. For comparison, the age of the Earth is only 1017 seconds. Replicators in die RNA world One may wonder which were the most primitive hereditary replicators. Many would suggest RNA nowadays, since it is a molecule having replicative as well as catalytic potential. (The recent demonstration that ribosomal RNA is the real catalyst of peptide bond formation during transla- tion, is especially appealing.) Let us discuss these in some detail. Although in most genetic systems RNA has a secondary role only (DNA being the store for genetic information), there are a few viruses (including that of AIDS), whose primary genetic material is RNA. Specific components of DNA (the sugar deoxyribose and the base thymine) do not readily form in experiments at- tempting to simulate possible primitive-Earth conditions. Moreover, in contemporary cell biosyntheses specific DNA components are always formed from some RNA components, rather then the other way round, although organic chemistry would allow for other reaction mechanisms. The classic experiments of Spiegelman illustrate nicely the evolutionary potentials of RNA molecules. He started with the in vitro replication of the 4500 base genome of the bacteriophage Qb, which is a virus of the bacterium E. coli. He placed Figure 10. The secondary structure of an RNA that evolved in the test-tube.</page><page sequence="6">202 Szathmáry &amp; Maynard Smith: Origin of genetic systems the RNA molecules into a test-tube containing an incubation solution of RNA components and the Qb replicase enzyme. After allowing several rounds of replication to occur, he took a small sample out of the solution, and inoculated it into a second test-tube with fresh incubation mixture. He repeated the incubation --&gt; replication --&gt; passage --&gt; incubation cycle a number of times. The result was a population of very small molecules. One variant arises rather frequently under certain incubation conditions, and is only 218 bases long (Fig. 10). It is easy to see why the molecules can differ from the initial ones: variation in this population is generated through mutation (the error rate of the replicase is 10 per base per replication) and breakage. Selection is going on as well: since shorter templates are replicated faster, they in- crease in frequency in the population. It is some- what less obvious why the molecules do not become reduced to very short oligonucleotides. The answer is that an RNA is accepted by the en- zyme for replication only if it has certain parts with specified base sequence and geometrical structure. If an RNA becomes too short, it cannot be recognized by the replicase any more. These experiments show that RNA molecules can in fact behave as evolutionary units, but there is one snag: they are not autonomous replicators, since the replicase, a protein, must always be present. It would be nice to have a ribozyme that could act as a replicase, and hence replicate itself. Then, the evolution of autonomous molecular ecosystems could be followed. In fact, the tradi- tional ecological interactions - competition, parasitism, and mutualism - could all show up and evolve in such ecosystems: there would be com- petition for raw materials (as shown already in Spiegelman's system); a parasite would be a molecule that would act as a target of a (self- replicating) replicase RNA, without itself being a replicase (such an RNA would presumably have a replicative advantage since it could be considerab- ly shorter than RNAs carrying the information for replicase activity); two RNAs that could catalyse each other's replication would be molecular mutualists (Eigen calls them hypercycles). J. W. Szostak and his coworkers are now busy trying to create, by molecular tinkering, a replicase RNA. The prebiotic pizza Although the evolution of an RNA world would be fascinating to follow, it would not solve the problem of the earliest replicators: RNA is still too complex a molecule to have originated directly from some prebiotic broth. For example, ribose foms in abiotic Miller-type experiments in a very low yield. Furthermore, when it comes together with the other types of components of RNA, they create molecules that show handedness: a molecule is not the same as its mirror image (remember the case of the Penrose-replicators). Replication of such a template in a solution of both stereoisomers would be impossible: the "il- legitimate" isomers also can bind to the template RNA without being covalently linked to the grow- ing chain. As L. Orgel and his colleagues warned, origin and successful replication in such an en- vironment is hopeless. Some simpler form of replicator, evading such stereo- problems, should be looked for. There have already been some sug- gestions; time will show how important they really are. It is unlikely, however, that the first unlimited hereditary replicators emerged from the prebiotic broth, which AI. Oparin and J.B.S. Haldane visualized as a hot, dilute soup. Experiments simulating prebiotic conditions show that al- though organic compounds of biological impor- tance (sugars, amino acids, some nucleotide bases, etc) do form, they do so only in a relatively low yield. Successful polymerisation is also rare, or it requires conditions that are not generally accepted as sufficiently "prebiotic". The problem of polymerisation is as follows. The chemical bond- ing of two amino acids (to form a dipeptide) re- quires energy. This is not a great problem, since some energy supply, ultimately driven by solar or geothermal energy, can be postulated. The dynamics of entropy (the measure of disorder) is more problematic. The more likely a chemical state is, the higher its entropy. The net balance of spontaneous chemical reactions tends to increase the entropy of the system as a whole. Before two amino acids come together, they can move, vibrate, and rotate in all possible directions. When they are linked by a peptide bond, a molecule of water is liberated. There are again two molecules: the dipeptide and the water, each of which can again move in all sorts of ways: there is practically no increase in entropy, which would drive the sys- tem towards polymerisation. As G. Wächtershäuser has noted, the situation changes dramatically when the reactions take place on a surface, to which the amino acids are bonded so that they move relatively freely on the</page><page sequence="7">Abstracta Botanica 17 ( 1993) 203 surface in two dimensions, but leave it rather in- frequently. If, after peptide formation, the water molecule is free to leave the surface, entropy is in- creased, because water can move freely in three dimensions instead of only two. The appropriate chemical bond is the ionic interaction: if the biologically important molecules carry negative charges, the surface must be positive or vice versa. As it happens, many biomolecules are negatively charged: for example, the -COO" and -OPC^" groups are prevalent. This suggests that the prebiotically active surface must have been posi- tive. The most appropriate candidate seems to be pyrite ("fool's gold"; FeS2). Wächtershäuser strongly advocates the view that the first evolu- tionary units emerged in a chemical network on the pyrite surface. We shall call this concept the "prebiotic pizza", in contrast to the disputed, old "prebiotic soup" idea. It is not obvious, however, what kind of evolution- ary units could have been present "before enzymes and templates", in the "surface organism", as Wächtershäuser calls the totality of all surface- bonded organic molecules of the surface metabolism. Perhaps surprisingly, they are likely to have been autocatalytic chemical cycles. As T. Gánti has called attention to, such chemical cycles form the biochemical basis of biological growth even in present-day living beings: the Calvin-cycle, the malate cycle, and the reductive citric acid cycle (Fig. 11) are all autocatalytic, the operation of which can be formalized by the following equa- tion: A A + X -■©■-&gt; 2A + Y, where A is the sum of the constituents of the cycle, X is the sum of the raw materials, and Y is the sum of the by-products. The cyclic process sign, replacing the equality sign, indicates that the A constituents undergo a complete cycle of chemi- cal reactions. Note that formally A are catalysts of the X - &gt; A + Y overall reaction: this is why such cycles are autocatalytic. The chemical steps of extant biochemical cycles are catalysed by protein enzymes; the question is, of course, whether similar cycles can operate without enzymes. The answer is yes. Butlerov dis- Figure 11. The reductive citric acid cycle. This cycle has been first described in the ancient, anaerobic photosynthetic Gram-negative bacterium Chlorobium thiosulfatophilum, that uses H2S as an electron-donor and accumulates sulfur. The required energy comes from light captured by bacteriochloropbyll c and d. Note that ferredaxin is an Fe-S protein (a possible "memory" of the pyrite surface), and Gram-negatives are the most ancient octant forms of life. The same cycle is thought to be possessed by the sulphate-respiring, anaerobic Desulfovibrio. Molecular evolutionary trees, based on cytochrome sequences, indicate that Chlorobium and Desulfovibrio are among the most ancient bacteria.</page><page sequence="8">204 Szathmáry &amp; Maynard Smith: Origin of genetic systems covered the formose reaction more than a century ago: it is the enzyme-free autocatalytic formation of sugars in alcalic formaldehyde solution. The overall balance is: Formose C2H4O2 + 2 CH20 - - 0- &gt; 2 C2H4O2 where the autocatalytic intermediate shown is glycolaldehyde. In fact the system is more compli- cated, and many other sugars are formed in a com- plex autocatalytic network. There are a few snags with this system, however. First, the yield of the system is not high: the sugars are quickly (i.e. after 10-13 minutes) decomposed into uninteresting products. Second, the yield of ribose, the most im- portant sugar for an RNA world, is especially low (less than 1%). Third, although it is true that sugars can be produced by the formose reaction, and base constituents of RNA can arise in other experiments, it is impossible to obtain nucleotides from sugars and added bases in the formose en- vironment; rather, uninteresting by-products ac- cumulate. Although a number of ideas have been put forward to "save" the formose reaction, its real prebiotic singificance remains uncertain. Never- theless, it is a nice example of non-enzymatic autocatalytic networks. As Wächtershäuser argues, it pays to look for pos- sible autocatalytic networks that could have been functioning in the prebiotic pizza. He suggested a an archaic reductive citric acid cycle which is very similar to the extant one, except that OH groups may be replaced by SH groups, for example the carboxylate groups (--COO") by the thiocarboxy- late (--COS") groups. These modifications are likely to help the formation and functioning of the cycle on the pyrite surface. The cycle is autocatalytic for its own production and catalytic for the oxidative formation of pyrite, which would provide the thermodynamical driving force. Wächtershäuser argues that more complex molecules could also be fomed on the basis of this archaic cycle. It is important to note that this idea is purely speculative, but is is also eminently tes- table: it suggests which reactions one ought to look for, and under what conditions. Evolution of autocatalytic cycles Let us accept for the time being that different autocatalytic chemical cycles can exist in the same environment, feeding on partly the same raw materials. Then, as Gánti suggested, such cycles may compete, and the inferior competitor (which completes one turn slower) can be excluded. Thus, such cycles multiply and have heredity, and there- fore can be selected. Variability is a more tricky problem. Many chemical changes in such cycles would be entirely determined by the environment: on reversion to the initial conditions, the system would revert as well. Occasionally, as Wäch- tershäuser points out, hereditary variation may also occur. Imagine that, very rarely, an inter- mediate of cycle A, due to some environmental fluctuation, is converted to a product that happens to be an intermediate of a new cycle B. Then, if B is also autocatalytic in the same environments as A is, B has a certain chance not to die out and start multiplicating. Then, the two cycles may compete, and cycle B may be driven to fixation. Although the process outlined above is similar to that of the fixation of a new gene as it happens in extant biological populations, there is a crucial difference. One way of putting it is as follows: whereas biological genomes are unlimited hereditary replicators, autocatalytic chemical cycles are limited hereditary replicators. It seems that they may exist only in a few, rather than countless, alternative forms, and that their "muta- tions" from one form to another is rather infre- quent. As Wächtershäuser remarks: "Metabolic novelties, therefore, do not emerge gradually. They arise after a more or less protracted induc- tion period as sudden saltations from one unique and distinct stage of the surface metabolist to another". This amounts to saying that, from an evolutionary biologist's perspective, there is no micoevolution, but only macroevolution in the world of autocatalytic cycles. The appearance of a new cycle is analogous to that of species, rather Figure 12. (a) The appearance of an autocatalytic branch, (b) The autocatalytic branch folds back onto the original one.</page><page sequence="9">Abstracta Botanica 17 (1993) 205 than mere genes. The evolutionary potential of such systems must be limited. Limited does not mean hopeless, however. Let us see two theoretical mechanisms first. Imagine a cycle. Sometimes new terminal extensions or lateral branchings of preexisting pathways may ap- pear, as a result of fluctuations. These branchings may be autocatalytic themselves (Fig. 12a). Some- times the branchings may ultimately fold back onto the original cycle; now each can be regarded as the extension of the other. As a result, the novel cycle becomes grafted onto the preexisting autocatalytic network (Fig. 12b). Another way to generate more complexity in net- works is the symbiotic union of two, originally in- dependent, cycles. Imagine that they grow in two neighbouring regions in the prebiotic pizza. Due to their autocatalytic nature, they occupy new ter- ritories (somewhat similar to growing amoebas on a surface). Ultimately, they may establish contact in a "hybrid zone", where interesting things could happen. Some new reactions among the inter- mediates of the two cycles are likely to take place. In certain cases these reactions may demolish one or both partners through unfavourable side-reac- tions, in other cases an enlarged network, embrac- ing many components of the two cycles, may emerge. Interestingly, this idea helps to evade the problem of generating complexity during the evolution of autocatalytic cycles. The late G. A. M. King imagined an autocatalytic cycle of n steps. Suppose that, in the ith step, the probability that the intermediate Aj will be con- verted into the next step in the cycle, and not be shunted off by some side reaction, is p¡. Then the gain in the cycle is g = 2 pip2-pn. or, if all ps are equal, g = 2pn. Hence the condition for the growth of an autocatalytic cycle is pn &gt; 0.5. Specificity of the reaction, therefore, is crucial. If p is small, then n must be small: larger values of p permit larger values of n. For a living cell, high specificity is ensured by the selectivity of enzymes, and the shielding effect of the cell membrane, neither of which were available for abiogenically produced autocatalytic cycles. The relatively smaller number of chemical species present in sur- face metabolism, compared to the chemical chaos of the primeval soup, would favour specificity, but the problem of specificity remains a serious one. Even if we accept that surface metabolism could satisfy the condition for growth, there remains the problem of further increase in complexity. King's idea of chemical symbiosis may save the situation. Imagine two cycles, A and B, requiring among their nutrients Xa and Xb, and producing wastes Ya and Yß. Let Xa = Yb and Xb = Ya: that is, the waste product of each cycle is the nutrient of the other. This makes a stoichiometric coupling, a chemical symbiosis, between the two cycles. In sur- face metabolism, this would happen when two domains, occupied by cycles A and B, become ad- jacent: symbiosis might be established. If so, some chemical groups might be discarded, which would make the association practically irreversible. There is evidence that chemical symbiosis has in fact taken place during the biochemical evolution of coenzymes. Extant coenzymes are important components of intermediate metabolism. They exist in two different forms: a loaded and an un- loaded one. The most famous of them is the ATP/ADP pair, which is at the core of energy metabolism. Enzymes use the coenzymes in catalyzed reactions to give or take their specific chemical groups. Coenzymes are important for prebiotic evolution for at least four reasons: (i) Many of them are able to donate or accept their groups in the absence of enzymes, albeit with lower efficiency and specificity. (ii) Several of them have nucleotide-like "hand- les", suggesting an early role in the RNA world. (iii) Most coenzymes are polyanionic surface bonders, and/or are produced by pathways which consist largely of surface-bonding intermediates. (iv) Coenzymes usually participate in the biosyn- thesis of themselves as well as that of each other: they seem to be auto- and cross-catalytic at the same time. The last two observations are remarkable, in that they suggest that coenzymes were part of surface metabolism, as well as of autocatalytic cycles that later became symbiotic. Templates and neighbour-modulated fitness Thus it seems plausible that a large autocatalytic network was able to evolve in surface metabolism. Refinement of the network and the evolution of programmable enzymes required the emergence of unlimited hereditary replicators, which were presumably RNA-analogs and later RNAs. Their appearance on the surface opened the possibility for a special form of microevolution, where the fit-</page><page sequence="10">206 Szathmáry &amp; Maynard Smith: Origin of genetic systems nesses (the expected number of correct offspring) were neighbour-modulated. It is an often overlooked principle of evolutionary dynamics that one is interacting only with one's neighbours. As it was shown by W.D. Hamilton some time ago, this has important consequences for the evolution of such important traits as altruism. In our context a replicase RNA can be regarded as an altruist, since it sacrifices its own fast reproduction for coding for a replicase func- tion. A target RNA without a replicase function is a cheater. If complemented by an altruist, it repli- cates faster. The problem is that in a well-mixed flow reactor the cheater would be selected for, even if ultimately it would be diluted out due to its inability to reproduce. The situation changes dramatically if the mole- cules are replicated on the surface and move around at a low velocity. Regions with a higher frequency of altruists will spread faster (colonize more new territories) than those plagued with many cheaters. It can be shown mathematically that under such conditions the cheaters are kept at bay. Compartmentation and the origin of protocells The origin and early evolution of life were thus the result of the evolution of two things: the autocatalytic chemical cycles (limited hereditary replicators) and templates (unlimited hereditary replicators). From another point of view, the first system is mainly responsible for homeostasis, the second provides a programme. Sooner or later they must have become detached from the surface, through the production by the network of am- fipathic, membranogenic molecules. Note that membranes can grow spontaneously: the mebranogenic molecules feel better inside the membrane than in solution. Thus, membrane growth is essentially autocatalytic. With the detachment from the surface the membrane acted as the boundary sub- system for the other two sub- systems: the metabolic network and the templates. As Gánti emphasized, the protocell is a molecular "symbionf of three autocatalytic systems, and the system as a whole is also autocatalytic: self- reproducing in the biological sense. Further evo- lution of the protocells, leading to the appearance of bacteria was largely dominated by that of its genes. Further reading Gánti, T. 1987. The principle of life. OMIKK, Budapest. Joyce, G.F. 1989. RNA evolution and the origins of life. Nature 338, 217-224. Maynard Smith, J. 1986. The problems of biology. Oxford Univ. Press. Maynard Smith, J. &amp; Szathmáry, E. 1993. The major steps of evolution, in prep. Penrose, L.S. 1959. Self-reproducing machines. Scientific American 200(6), 105- 114. Szathmáiy, E. 1989. The emergence, maintenance, and transi- tions of the earliest evolutionaiy units. Oxford Surveys in Evolutionary Biology 6, 169-205. 'Äßchtershäuser, G. 1988. Before enzymes and templates: Theory of surface metabolism. Microbiological Reviews 52, 452-484.</page></plain_text>