<plain_text><page sequence="1">608 l'Organisation de l'Iris," for evidence of the muscularity of the iris which he obtained by applying galvanism to the human eye imme- diately after decapitation; and he concludes with the narrative of the case of a woman in whose iris there had been formed, by an accidental wound with the point of a knife, a triangular aperture below the pupil. This aperture became dilated when the pupil was contracted, and vice versd; thus furnishing a proof that its move- ments were effected by muscular action. April 2, 1846. The MARQUIS OF NORTHAMPTON, President, in the-Chair. Major Cautley was elected a Fellow of the Society. Contributions to the Chemistry of the Urine. Part II. "On the Variations in the Alkaline and Earthy Phosphates in Disease." By Henry Bence Jones, M.D., Fellow of the Royal College of Physi- cians. Communicated by Thomas Graham, Esq., F.R.S., &amp;c. The analyses, of which the results are given in a series of tables, were made by the author, chiefly from the urine of patients labour- ing under different diseases in St. George's Hospital, and therefore nearly under the same circumstances as far as exercise was con- cerned. He found that the variations in the earthy phosphates were in general independent of the nature of the disease. In fractures of the spine and paraplegia, however, the total amount of these salts was slightly above the healthy standard during the early period, and when inflammatory action might be considered as prevailing; but when this action had subsided, and the affection had become chronic, the total quantity of phosphatic salts was less than natural. In chronic diseases of the brain, and in chronic and even in acute diseases of the membranes, no increase of these salts was observed. In fractures of the bones of the skull, when inflammation of the brain supervened, there was a slight increase of the total amount of phosphates; but no such increase occurred when the head was not affected, even although acute inflammation of other organs existed. In acute inflammation of the brain there was an excessive secretion of phosphates, which returned to the natural quantity as soon as the inflammation passed into the chronic state. In some functional diseases of the brain, attended with delirium, the secretion of the salts was excessive; but the excess ceased with the disappearance of that symptom. In other functional diseases, as in fevers, no ex- cess was observable. In delirium tremens, when food could be taken, there was neither excess nor deficiency; but in the most violent cases, where no food could be taken, the quantity of the phosphates was diminished in a most remarkable degree. In the general paralysis of the insane, no increase of phosphates was ob- served. One case of acute paroxysm of mania showed a small in-</page><page sequence="2">609 crease dtring the paroxysm; in two other cases of mania there was a diminution of phosphates approaching to that occurring in delirium tremens. Bright's disease, even attended with acute inflammation, showed no increase. When only a few-ounces of urine were se- creted, .as in, dropsy, no increase was observed; and none also in a very extreme. case of exostosis. In the case of mollities ossium, there was a decided increase of the earthy phosphates; and at last, the alkaline phosphates were also in excess, although there was no indication of affections of the nervous structures. The following are the general conclusions which the author draws from his inquiries: first, that acute affections of the nervous sub- stance, organic and functional, are the only diseases in which an excess of phosphatic salts appears in the urine; and in acute in- flammation of the brain, its amount is proportional to the intensity of the inflammation; secondly, that in a large class of functional diseases of the brain, of which delirium tremens presents the most marked example, the secretion of phosphates is most remarkably diminished; and lastly, that no chronic disease exhibits any marked excess in the total quantity of phosphatic salts secreted, at least as far as the mode of' analysis employed by the author can be regarded as conclusive. &lt;6 On the effects produced by Poisonous Fish on the Human Frame." By Sir William Burnett, M.D., K.C.H., Vice-President of the Royal Society. The author communicates a report which he lately received from Mr. Jameson, the surgeon of the flag ship at the Cape of Good Hope, of the rapidly fatal consequences ensuing from eating small portions of the liver of a fish, known at the Cape by the name of the Bladder or Toad fish, the Aptodactylus punctatus, or Tetrodon of Cuvier. The symptoms were chiefly pain and burning sensation at the epigastrium, constriction and spasm of the fauces and mus- cles of deglutition, rigidity of the tendons, coma, paralysis and con- vulsions, following one another in quick succession, and terminating in death within twenty minutes after the poisonous food had been taken. Several other instances of the same kind are next related; and a narrative is subjoined of the case of a seaman who lost his life, with similar symptoms, from the bite of a water snake in Madras roads; the Coluber laticaudatus of Linnleus (Hydrus colubrinus of Shaw); and also of a ship's company who were all severely affected by eating portions of a large Banacuda (Perca major). The author ascribes the symptoms induced by these deleterious substances to their action on the nervous system alone, there being evidence of congestion only, but not of inflammation, in the sto- mach and other viscera. ( Further Researches on the Nervous System of the Uterus." By Robert Lee, M.D., F.R.S., Fellow of the Royal College of Phy- sicians. The author states, that on the 8th of April 1838, he discovered,</page></plain_text>