<plain_text><page sequence="1">-69 HOSPITAL MANAGEMENT IME 483 . . THE USE OF HOODS IN BIRDS For many years, restricting the sight has been used as a means of sedation and restraint in birds. Various methods of occlu ding the eyesight of birds has proven successful for short medi cal procedures and transportation. However, few are as safe and ef fective as a proper-fitting hood. Many examinations, treatments and surgeries can become less stress ful to both the patient and the practitioner with the use of hoods, and often the need of anes thesia can be eliminated. Traditional falconry hood patterns have been found to best accommodate the head shapes of most birds encountered. The leat her hoods are glued or sewn toget her along the seams and size and shape modifications can be easily accomplished when needed. Hood patterns are available through falconers and falconry textbooks. A selection of six various hood sizes should be adequate for most practitioner's needs. For patterns and specific in structions on hood construction, consult: North American Falconry and Hunting Hawks, 4th Ed. by F.L. Beebe, K.M. Webster,and J. Enderson (P.O. Box 1484, Den ver, CO 80201 Size for small species of gulls, waterfowl, owls. An alternative to the leather falconry hood, orthopedic stock inette (Johnson &amp; Johnson) can be used in an emergency. Double thickness stockinette is rolled over the head and tapered at the neck with masking tape. Unfortun ately stockinette does not re strict the vision as well as a properly fitted leather hood, and it may also cause overheating, and tends to contact the eye surfaces. Care must be taken when hood ing any bird that the hood fits correctly and does not constrict breathing or contact the eyes. Wet tearing spots on the insides of hoods are indications of eye irritation from improper fitting. As with any sedation or restraint technique there is a wide varia tion in the effectiveness and tolerance within each species of bird. It is therefore necessary to use good judgement in the ap plication of hooding techniques for each individual situation. ?Ron Dalzall, DVM Ventura, CA Russell Tucker UC, Davis</page><page sequence="2">- u IME 484 . . USE OF AMES SERALYZER FOR AVIAN CHEMISTRY RESULTS R The Ames Seralyzer , can be very useful for avian practition ers who may have difficulty get ting serum chemistries run on birds or for those looking for fast in-house results. It is a computerized dry chemistry machine which comes with approximately 10 separate modules (one for each of the most common human tests), however the micro measuring pip ette needs to be requested separ ately. One hematocrit tube will supply enough serum for two tests. Once you place the sample in the appropriate module, you can walk away, a buzzer signals the comple tion of the test (usually within two minutes), and the digital reading of the results stays on display until cleared. ? R. Dean Axelson Willowdale, Ontario, Canada I ME 485 . . MULTIPLE USES FOR MICRO TEST TUBES R Eppendorf 1.5 ml polypropyl ene micro test tubes (Scientific Products - Catalog No. C 3515-10) come with a snap on lid and are very inexpensive (500 for $29.00). For one thing, they make excellent containers of buffered formalin for individual organ biopsy sam ples. A student (Mike Kohan) ran out of Microtainer serum separa tors while doing blood work here, and made substitutes out of the micro test tubes. The silicone gel plugs from the large glass test tubes (supplied free by clin ical pathology labs) were as pirated out with a TB syringe and approximately .1 cc deposited at the bottom of each micro tube to serve as a barrier when the sample was centrifuged. Ten to fifteen micro serum separators can be made from one large test tube. IME 48G . . HEATING A HOSPITAL ROOM ? Greg J. Harrison, DVM Lake Worth, FL We heat our bird hospital room very economically with an Intra therm Softheat unit. A 4 foot unit runs on 110 power and heats the 8 8 room to a constant 85? (the room has 2 external walls of cement block and windows). The Softheat unit heats a coil of water, then shuts off leaving a non-fluctuating radiant heat. The units come in varying lengths in both portable and mountable models. They are also beneficial in aviaries or reptile housing. ? Cathy Johnson, DVM Lynnwood, WA</page></plain_text>