<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 11: 53-70,1987 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE H- 1083 Budapest The Effect of Herbicides on Vegetation Dynamics: Comparison of Classifications* Klára Virágh Research Institute for Ecology and Botany, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, Vácrátót, H-2163 Abstract: This paper discusses the utility of different resemblance indices and clustering methods applied to the same data and the comparison of results thus obtained for detecting vegetation changes induced by leaf herbicides in an old perennial grassland community. Multiple comparison of classifica- tions of different data sets, originated from various treatments is also used to examine the relative impact of treatment, herbicide dose, clustering method and data type upon the classifications. It is de- monstrated thai the method of multiple comparison and the evaluation of results by reducing the data set successively may be very powerful to reveal and assess the relative importance of different treatments in the changes of vegetation pattern. Introduction Major floristic changes induced by some leaf-herbicides in an old perennial grassland community (Pulsatille) - Festucetum rupicolae) were studied using permanent quadrats from 1979 to 1983. The utiliy of different similarity matrices in detecting ve- getation dynamical changes was reported in Virágh (1987). In that paper I analyzed the effect of herbicide treatments on the coenological similarity relations, on the di- rection of secondary succession, on the rates of change measured as floristic change (Sorensen-index) and as change of species cover (Czekanowski coefficient), on the degree of recovery of the community ('resilience'), on the seasonal dynamics and the response to stress situation (drought, 'resistance'). Then, clustering methods and prin- cipal coordinates analysis (PCoA) indicating other aspects of vegetation dynamics were applied to characterize vegetation pattern and to reveal major trends of temporal floristic changes. I examined whether the classification and ordination methods are appropriate to depict the pattern of vegetation changes and to provide information not apparent otherwise. The ten points of time ('objects') were classified by means of different agglomerative hierarchical methods and the matrices subjected to cluster- * This paper was presented at the International Symposium on Numerical Syntaxonomy and Synecology held in Unovce, near Galanta, Czechoslovakia, on May 18-22, 1987</page><page sequence="2">54 Virágh ing were also analyzed by PCoA. The results based on the Czekanowski index were evaluated and presented in a previous article (Virágh 1986). In a vegetation dynamical study examining the effects of herbicide treatments the selection of methods is critical. The problems are the following. 1. Herbicides selective to monocots and dicots cause a decline in species number and subsequent changes during regeneration are entirely different in every treatment. These are important for detecting vegetation changes, although comparisons of sam- pling points of time with different species number are of limited use, because the si- milarity structure of 'objects' can be distorted by certain indices. Moreover, distortions for the same index can be explained by different reasons and are manifested in various ways in the values of that index in different treatments. 2. The herbicide Gabonil kills the dicots, which are represented by many species but with low abundance, whereas the herbicide Dalapon kills the most abundant mo- nocots constituting only 10% of the total number of species. During regeneration the reinvasion of species (qualitative aspect) and the changes of dominance- abundance relationships among the species (quantitative aspect) can be verv important. Therefore, some indices which considered only species presence and absence, thus emphasizing rare and common species similarly, and others which strongly emphasized the importance of larger abundance values in the time by species data matrix, as well as some indices emphasizing dominants but still considering rare species must be applied. 3. The grassland community contains verv few dominant and abundant species but many rare and poorlv represented species, therefore the data matrices in the present study are sparse. This determines criteria, of choosing a particular resemblance function. It is, however, also obvious that the absence of species is informative just for indicating the effect of treatment. So in this case the elimination of zeros would not be meaningful when floristical changes are to be detected. It is also very typical that the species which are absent or less abundant before the treatment become more do- minant and abundant following the treatment, that is why inclusion of every species in the multivariate analyses seems the most appropriate. It is hardly possible to solve the above problems simultaneously and to choose a single method or resemblance function which would be able to detect vegetation pattern appropriately in every treatment. Therefore, several indices and clustering methods are applied to the same data and the results thus obtained are compared. If the different methods lead to similar conclusions about temporal changes of pattern, the possibiliy that the similarity structure of objects suggested by the analysis is not an artifact is increased. Nevertheless, the empirical control, field observations on the changes induced are also necessary for an adequate interpretation of the results. In this paper, 14 hierarchical classifications are discussed. The comparison of these classifications receives the most attention. I analyze the congruence of classifica- tions derived from a single experiment, as well as that of classifications of different ex- periments based on different data types and obtained by several sorting strategies and resemblance functions. To examine the relative impact of herbicide treatments, herbi- cide doses and various clustering methods upon the results, a multiple comparison is used.</page><page sequence="3">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 55 The main objectives of this comparitive study are to find out: la) which methods lead to similar conclusions about the pattern of points of time in a single experiment; lb) which methods produce results that disagree with empirical field observations on the changes induced; 2a) the congruence of classifications of data from different herbicide treatments; 2b) how the differences among the treatments are expressed by the results obtained by various methods. Material and methods Field study A homogeneous stand of a Pulsatille) - Festucetum rupicolae community near the stable state was selected for studies of local secondary succession, i.e., regenerational processes initiated by some herbicide treatments. Three or five types of experiments carried out are presented here. These are listed below: Control experiment (C) It represents vegetational changes without any treatment. Gabonil experiment (4 1/ha dose; G4) (7 1/ha dose; G7) The dicots, the less dominant group, were removed. Immediately after spraying, there was a possibility for expansion of grasses and later the re-settlement of some dicots. Dalapon experiment (12 kg/ha dose; D 12) (20 kg/ha dose; D20) The dominant monocots were removed. It was very important that after elimina- ting the dominant species large bare ground occurred where some dicots well spreading by vegetative propagula became predominant and determined sub- sequent vegetation changes. The monocots re-appeared only some years later. The 5-vear experiments were started in 1979. Sampling The investigations were carried out in five 1*1 m2 permanent quadrats covered with a grid of 20*20 cm" units. Presence-absence and percentage cover of species were estimated in the contagious subquadrats (125 per treatment). The area was sprayed at one occasion at the end of June, but the treatment by the two selective her- bicides of larger dose was repeated again after a year. Dates of spraying were: June 1979 (Gabonil 4, Dalapon 12, Gabonil 7, Dalapon 20); June 1980 (Gabonil 7, Dalapon 20). Recordings were made twice a year, in June and September from 1979 to 1983.</page><page sequence="4">56 Virágh Data The presence/absence and cover scores were summarized in a species by sub- quadrats data matrix for each point of time and each treatment. Such a matrix repre- sents the operational unit (basic object) of multivariate analysis. To facilitate the use of resemblance coefficients for comparing points of time, these matrices were trans- formed into vector form. Consequently, only the temporal change within subquadrats is manifested in the final results, variation between the 5 replicate plots does not in- fluence classifications and ordinations. Classifications Ten points of time (during the 5 years studied) in each treatment were classified by means of 14 different agglomerative hierarchical methods (Table 1). Possible com- binations of three sorting algorithms (farthest neighbor, group average and sum of squares agglomeration or Ward's method) and 9 resemblance coefficients (Czekan- owski index, the product moment correlation coeficient, chord distance and Euclidean distance for cover data, as well as Sorensen-index, Russell-Rao index, PHI coefficient, chord distance and Euclidean distance for binary data) were used. Comparison of classifications The distance between classifications was measured using four different dendro- gram descriptors. Each descriptor reflects a particular property of the classification and indicates only a given aspect of dendrogram comparisons. The descriptors are: 1. Cladistic difference (Farris 1969, Phipps 1971). 2. Cluster membership divergence (CMD, Podani 1982). It expresses the size of the smallest cluster which contains object i and j. 3. Partition membership divergence (PMD, Podani 1982). It equals the number of partitions in which the two objects in question are not assign- ed together to a group. 4. Subtree membership divergence (SMD, Podani 1982). It differs from PMD in that the subtrees of the dendrograms are considered instead of the partitions. The combined distance of dendrograms based on all the 4 standardized indices shows the relative dissimilarity of each dendrogram to the extremes. PCoA and cluster analysis were used for the multiple comparison of dendrograms based on the combin- ed distance matrix. This method was introduced by Podani (1982) and described in detail by Podani and Dickinson (1984). Two basic types of dendrogram comparison arose in the present study: a) The classifications are derived from the same data (a single treatment) using different clustering methods (different resemblance indices and sorting algorithms) and data types.</page><page sequence="5">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 57 Table 1. Summary of combinations of data analysis methods and experiments. Numbe- red symbols in the last five columns are used in ordination diagrams as references to these combinations. Data Resemblance Sorting Treatment type coefficient method Control Gabonil Dalapon 4 1/ha 7 1/ha 12 kg/ha 20 kg/ha Czekanowski Farthest 'a/ [T| index neighbor Grr„,. © A v a &lt;s&gt; Cov„ © A V 0 &lt;3&gt; correlation _ A ^ © a A v s &lt;$&gt; ^ Chord Ward A . Rļ distance Euclidean Ward @ /ę' 'ô/ [ē] distance A ^ j , Sorensen Farthest ''7) ,7' '7/ ļ 7 ¡ index neighbor *■---» v --j v GrouP .-'s; '8' Va7 ri"! /e&gt; average v • - 1 ' Russell - Farthest /g^ _ Tģl Rao neighbor - 1 Binary 1 GrOUP ¿O' ^ ' A " 1 average ^ ' PHI Farthest ^ ' A Tl'l"! &lt;ÍĎ neighbor - ' V "--J sx/ Group / ' A r 7 r--ī average 'i?' / ' Chord Ward ^3) - i'l'Ü distance L""* /' , - Euclidean Ward _ ^4' """* __ j14ļ , _ distance """*</page><page sequence="6">58 Virágh b) The classifications are derived from different data (treatments) by several cri- teria (different data types, resemblance functions and sorting strategies). The ordination or classification of dendrograms reveals the similarity relation- ships among the results and shows the relative impact of treatments, herbicide doses and various methods upon clustering. Results and their discussion The effect of clustering algorithm, resemblance coefficient and data type on the classification of data from a single experiment The results are presented here only for the control, Gabonil 4 and Dalapon 12 experiments. The results of 14 clustering methods applied will not be evaluated in detail, only some general comments will follow and some congruences and incongru- ences detected by the comparisons will be emphasized. Most of the dendrograms are mot given because the figures would very much increase the volume of the paper without adding substantial new information. Control In the dendrograms two or three groups can be distinguished. In the last three years fusion between summer-summer and autumn-autumn points of time on high si- milarity levels is striking (Fig. 1). The high values of similarity indices remain within a narrow range and the small distances between the fusion levels indicate relative ho- mogeneity of the whole data matrix. Different clustering methods produce considerably similar classifications; the results seem to be independent of data type, algorithm and resemblance function. The type of algorithm has no effect on the results except for the Russell-Rao index. Some differences can be discovered only between the results based on similarity indices and the two distance functions. The dendrograms obtained by chord and Euclidean distan- ce (Fig. la) show the fusion of the first 4 and the last 6 pointsof time is not separated from the others, whereas this separation is rather strongly expressed in the dendro- grams obtained by similarity indices. The result of quantititive comparison (Fig. lg) indicating groups of classification results on the basis of the congruence among the dendrograms also demonstrated dis- similarity among the pattern of points of time revealed by the distance functions and by the similarity indices. Gabonil 4 A sharp distinction between the first sampling date and all the others is obvious. A tendency for similarity values getting higher between the consecutive points of time is well seen. Every dendrogram can be drawn in the way that temporal ordering of the objects becomes apparent. (It is impossible for the other experiments!)</page><page sequence="7">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 59 Figure 1: Dendrograms of points of lime (a-f) and the classification of dendrograms (g) in the control experiment, a: Czekanowski index ^ farthest neighbor sorting; b: Czekanowski index -1- group average sorting; c: produci moment correlation coefficient farthest neighbor sorting; d: product moment correlation coefficient ^ group average sorting; e: chord distance + Ward's method; f: Eu- clidean distance + Ward s method; 1: June 1979; 2: September 1979; 3: June 1980; 4: September 1981); 5: June 1981; (v. September 1981; 7: June 1982; 8: September 1982; 9: June 1983; 10: Sep- tember 1983</page><page sequence="8">60 Virágh Figure 2: Dendrograms of points of lime (a-f) and the classification of dendrograms (g) in the Gabonil 4 treatment. (See Figure 1 for explanation of symbols).</page><page sequence="9">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 61 The clustering results (Fig. 2) are similar only in the overall pattern of points of time (see the sharp separation of the first point of time before the spraying from the others). The dendrograms are completely identical only at low fusion similarity levels. At high fusion levels it becomes difficult to find out smaller clusters clearly correspon- ding to each other. It also means that the structure of dendrograms is mainly deter- mined by the herbicide treatment. Because of the slow and continuous floristic and cover changes following the spraying, the fusions between the subsequent points of time are not consistently assigned. More or less different pattern of points of time is detected by the different resemblance funtions. for quantitative data the most similar result were produced by the two standardized coefficients, the product moment corre- lation coefficient and the chord distance, as well as the two unstandardized ones, the Czekanowski index and the Euclidean dištance (Fig. 2). The floristic and quantitative changes in the data are less consistent, so that dif- ferent algorithms yielded more or less diverging results. The dendrograms based on different data types are dissimilar; incongruences appear at the highest fusion levels. The effect of treatment on species composition and percentage cover of species is manifested in different way in similarity relations- hips, so it is worth using both binary and non-binary indices. Dalapon 12 The distinction between the first and all the other points of time is unclear and ambiguous in the different classifications. The similarity between the subsequent points of time is relatively high, but much lower than in the Gabonil experiment. It in- dicates that the changes after the treatment are significant and very rapid through the 5 years and therefore the consecutive points of time are less similar to each other. The fusion similarities between the large clusters are rather low. The hierarchi- cal relationships show higher heterogeneity than those in the control and Gabonil ex- periments. The sharp separation of the 8l point of time is strongly emphasized. It is the expression of drought effects in 1982 which were not detected in the control and were of small extent only in the Gabonil treatment. Dendrograms obtained by different resemblance functions differ from one another mainly at low fusion similarity levels. The greatest difference exist especially in the fusion of the first point of time to the others. This inconsistence among the results may occur because of the different sensitivity of the various indices to great changes in the data structure induced by the herbicide Dalapon which eliminates the most abundant and frequent monocots. This also accords with the well-known fact that as the proportion of zeros in the data increaes the data usually become less coherent. The highest correspondence is found between the dendrograms obtained by the 4 quantitative indices, indicating that the great changes occurred mainly in the abundan- ce of species and those could yield consistent fusions in the similarity structure. It is only the classification obtained by Euclidean distance which can hardly be identified with the other dendrograms (Fig. 3). The very strong effect of drought cannot be de- tected either using this index. It also leads me to the conclusion that Euclidean distan- ce is not a suitable measure for revealing group structure in this experiment.</page><page sequence="10">62 Virágh Figure 3: Dendrograms of points of time (a-f) and the classification of dendrograms (g) in the Dalapon treatment. (See Figure 1. for explanation of symbols.)</page><page sequence="11">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 63 The results of classifications are algorithm-dependent for almost every index, the only exception being the correlation coefficient. The effect of treatments and herbicide doses on the classifications The position of classifications in the ordination space reveals the congruence among the dendrograms (Figs 4-10). First, the classifications obtained by the 4 quanti- tative indices are compared and evaluated separately for five (control, Gabonil 4, Gabonil 7, Dalapon 12, Dalapon 20), and three (control, Gabonil 4, Dalapon 12) tre- atments altogether and for all possible pairwise combinations of the 3 latter cases. The relatively great impact of doses upon the classification results of cover data is strongly expressed (Fig. 4). The dendrograms of the treatments of larger dose are more congruent than those of Gabonil and Dalapon experiments of different doses. Besides the significant differences between the doses there is a sharp separation among the dendrograms of control and those of treatments. The procedure of data reduction made it possible to assess the departure of the treatments from the control experiment using the principal coordinate axes: Separate treatments Eigenvalue as percent Axis C-G4-D7-D 12-D20 19% II C-G4-D12 72% I C-G4 18% II C-D12 24% II G4-D12 19% II It is very important to note that in the comparison of 5 treatments (Fig. 4), the separation of dendrograms of treatments and the control is rather weak owing to the strong influence of doses. The first axis accounting for 49% of the total variance seems to correspond to the effect of doses, whereas the second axis can be interpreted as a treatment factor. On the contrary, in the comparison of 3 treatments including the larger doses (Fig. 5), the treatments are the most influential. The first axis reflects the separation of treatments from the control, and the second axis emphasizes the differ- ences between the Gabonil and Dalapon experiments. The classification results obtained by various methods seem to be very similar in a single treatment, but strongly dissimilar among the different experiments. It indicat- es that the dissimilarity in the pattern of points of time of the treatments is primarily caused by herbicides and only slightly by the resemblance indices and clustering methods. It is the Czekanowski index only which produces classification results in the control and Gabonil experiments somewhat different from those produced by the other resemblance functions used. The dendrograms yielded by the Czekanowski index in the control and Gabonil experiments are, however, in a fairly good agreement.</page><page sequence="12">64 Virágh Figure 4: PCoA ordination of classifications of 5 Figure 5: PCoA ordination of classifications of 3 treatments (control, Gabonil 4, Gabonil 7, treatments (control, Gabonil 4, Dalapon 12). All Dalapon 12, Dalapon 20) . All dendrograms are dendrogramsare based on cover data (see Table based on cover data, (see Table 1 for explanation 1 for explanation of symbols), of symbols). The pairwise comparisons (Figs 6-8) also reflect that the Czekanowski index tends to produce somewhat different results, but the separation of the Gabonil and Dalapon experiments from the control is always rather strong regardless the clustering methods used. This separation is well-expressed on the principal coordinate axis 2, which can be interpreted as a herbicide factor. In all the possible pairwise compari-</page><page sequence="13">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 65 sons of the 3 treatments, the principal coordinate axis 3 accounting only for 10% of the total variance is responsible for the differences caused by the indices and sorting strategies. The comparison of dendrograms based on binary and nonbinary data (Figs 9-10) suggests that the relative impact of data type on the results is negligible as compared with the effects of herbicides and doses. When the results are analyzed for all the 5 treatments (Fig. 9) in this case, it is apparent that the greatest differences between the dendrograms are caused by the Dalapon doses, whereas the clustering methods give nearly the same results in the control and Gabonil experiments independently from dose, resemblance function and data type. It also indicates that the similarity relationships between the points of time during the 5 years seem to be very similar in the original, intact community and in plots treated with Gabonil. Probably owing to the elimination of the dominant mono- cots form the community, temporal patterns in plots treated with Dalapon are entirely different from that in the control and Gabonil treatments. Manifestation of great dif- ferences between the Dalapon doses is strong on the fist axis accounting for 30% of the total variance, reflecting the most significant effect of doses. The first principal co- Figure 6: PCoA ordination of classifications of control and Gabonil 4 experiments. All dendrograms are based on cover data (see Table 1 for explanation of symbols).</page><page sequence="14">66 Virágh Figure 7: PCoA ordination of classifications of control and Dalapon 12 experiments. All dendrograms are based on cover data (see Table 1. for explanation of symbols). ordinate axis seems to correspond to the Dalapon doses while the second one, accoun- ting for 23% of the total variance, can be interpreted as a herbicide factor showing the separation of Dalapon experiments from the control and Gabonil ones (Fig. 9). When the effect of doses is removed, other incongruences among the dendro- grams can be revealed (Fig. 10). In the control there is no difference between the classifications of binary and cover data, but the reverse is true for the Gabonil experi- ment. Classifications of binary data from the Gabonil treatment are similar to the control ones, but those obtained for cover data are separated from the others. Its reason may be that in the Gabonil treatment the cover changes following disturbance are slower than floristic changes and are much slower than floristic changes and cover changes in the control plots (see Virágh 1987). For the Dalapon treatment there is a fairly good consensus between the dendrograms based on binary and non-binary data. Some dissimilarities probably arising from different properties of the resemblance functions are apparent only in the binary case.</page><page sequence="15">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 67 Figure 8: PCoA ordination of classifications of Gabonil 4 and Dalapon 12 experiments. All dendro- grams are based on cover data, (see Table 1 for explanation of symbols). Concluding remarks This paper analyzed the usefulness of different resemblance indices and cluster- ing methods to reveal pattern of vegetation changes induced by some leaf herbicides in an old perennial grassland community. Herbicides selective to monocots and dicots changed the data structure in different ways, so the selection of a method best reveal- ing data structure in single treatment was very critical. The application of several indices to the same data and the comparison of results thus obtained proved to be the most powerful. The relative impact of resemblance index, sorting algorithm and data type has also been discussed. Some general findings of the results of multiple comparison of classifications derived from a single experiment are summarized as follows. 1. The data structure is the most consistent in the control experiment. Different clustering methods produce considerably similar classifications; the results seem to be independent of data type, algorithm and resemblance function.</page><page sequence="16">68 Virágh Figure 9. PCoA ordination of classifications of 5 treatments (control, Gabonil 4, Gabonil 7, Dalapon 12, Dalapon 20). All dendrograms based on binary and non-binary (cover) data, (see Table 1 for ex- planation of symbols). 2. It is worth using both binary and non-binary indices in order to evaluate the effects of treatments on the floristic and cover changes manifested in different ways. 3. The classification results often seem to be algorithm-dependent. 4. The appropriate choice of resemblance function is very important for reveal- ing temporal pattern in different treatments. 5. The resemblance coefficient can be considered the first, the data type the second influential factor, whereas the choice of sorting strategies has the least influen- ce on the classifications.</page><page sequence="17">Effects of herbicides on vegetation dynamics 69 Figure 10: PCoA ordination of classifications of 3 treatments (control, Gabonil 4, Dalapon 12) based on binary and nonbinary (cover) data. (See Table 1 for explanation of symbols). The congruence among the classifications of different data sets (data derived from different treatments) has also been analyzed. The multivariate comparison of dendrogramsyielded information useful to the interpretation of the differences among the treatments and herbicide doses. In the comparison of five and three treatments it was apparent that the effect of a herbicide was similarly expressed by the resemblance</page><page sequence="18">70 Virágh indices; the results seemed to be independent of different clustering methods in a single experiment. The results were, however, entirely different among the different treatments. The highest relative importance of herbicide dose and treatment was re- vealed by the successive evaluation of the results by reducing the data set. The proce- dure of data reduction made it possible to assess the departure of the treatments from the control experiment (using the principal coordinate axes). References Farris, J.S. 1969. On the cophenetic correlation coefficient. Syst. Zool. 18:279-285. Phipps, J.B. 1971. Dendrogram topology. Syst. Zool. 20:306-308. Podani, J. 1982. Spatial processes in the analysis of vegetation. Ph.D. thesis. University of Western Ontario, London. Nat. Library of Canada Microfiche. No. TC 56124 Podani, J. 1984. SYN-TAX II. Computer programs for data analysis in ecology and systematics. Abstracta Botanica 8:73-94 Podani, J. and T. A. Dickinson. 1984. Comparison of dendrograms: a multivariate approach. Can. J. Bot 62:2765-2778. Sokal, R. R. and F. J. Rohlf. 1962. The comparison of dendrograms by objective , methods. Taxon 11:33-40. Virágh, K. 1986. The effect of herbicides on vegetation dynamics. A multivariate study. Abstracta Botanica 10:317-340. Virágh, K. 1987. The effect of herbicides on vegetation dynamics. A 5-year study of temporal variation of species composition in permanent grassland plots. Folia Geobot. Phytotax. Praha 22:385-405. (Received October 2, 1987).</page></plain_text>