<plain_text><page sequence="1">Avian Conservation News Conservation Briefs By Susan Wells, DVM Bald Eagle Population Increasing in Chesapeake Bay The National Wildlife Federation reports that the 1986 Bald Eagle breeding season in the Chesapeake Bay area was the most successful in 24 years. Since 1983 there has been a steady increase in the number of oc- cupied nests and the number of young per nest. This seems to in- dicate that eagles are recovering from the effects from DDT. Wet Land Area Protected for Whoop- ing Cranes The Nature Conservancy recently purchased the southern tip of Matagorda Island in Texas. This area is part of a 41 mile long barrier island adjacent to Aransas National Wildlife Refuge. In addition to pro- viding a winter home for the en- dangered whooping cranes, there are 4 other endangered species that reside on the island: Brown Pelicans, alligators, Arctic Peregrine Falcons, and Kemps' Ridley sea turtle. California Condor Update The U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service (FWS) recently purchased an 11,000 acre ranch at the south end of California's San Joaquin Valley which will provide a future release site for condors. The ranch will become part of the Bittercreek National Wildlife Refuge. The condor was first listed as en- dangered in 1967, a victim of poison- ing by lead and pesticides. By 1985 there were only 16 birds in the wild and 21 in zoos, so the FWS decided to capture all the wild birds and place them in captive breeding programs. The fate of the condor is anything but secure. Eggs taken from nests have been successfully hatched at the San Digeo and Los Angeles zoos since 1979, but many questions remain unanswered. It isn't really known if wild birds will breed in captivity or if captive-raised birds can survive in the wild. Condors do not mate until they are about 7 or 8 years old and pair bonding may take months or years. If all goes well, 1990 will be the earliest date that condors could be rein- troduced into their native habitat. Birds of Prey Conservation By Gregory L. Moore, DVM Boise, Idaho is the center of major commitments to the conservation and captive propagation of raptors. Located relatively close to the Snake River Birds of Prey Area, which is believed to have the highest concen- tration of nesting birds of prey in the world, Boise provides ample oppor- tunities for work of the Peregrine Fund, Boise State University, and the newly established World Center for Birds of Prey. The Peregrine Fund was originally established by conservationists who were committed to repopulating the endangered Peregrine Falcon. Starting with basic breeding stock donated by falconers in the early 1970's, sup- porters of the Peregrine Fund developed successful captive raptor propagation and reintroduction techniques. As a result, the Peregrine Falcon has made such a strong come- back in the wild that reintroduction of this species may be discontinued in a few years. Using technology developed for the Peregrine and other North American species, the World Center for Birds of Prey was established for captive propagation of endangered and threatened birds of prey from other countries. Attention is currently focused on exotic species such as the Bat Falcon, Orange-breasted Falcon, and Taita Falcon from South America, a Peregrine species and Black Goshawk from Zimbabwe, and the Mauritius Kestral, one of the most endangered birds in the world, found only on the Mauritius Islands. Land for the World Center for Birds of Prey was purchased by the North American Falconers Association and the facilities were built through efforts of the North American Peregrine Foundation, the Peregrine Fund, and private donations. The Center has a public education facility that provides slide shows and tours. The public can visit areas for quail and chicken production, artificial in- cubation and breeding barns (with one way mirrors). The World Center for Birds of Prey and the Peregrine Fund work with Boise State University, the only university that offers a Masters of Science degree in Raptor Biology. Numerous raptor management and research symposiums are also held in the Boise area. Report of ICBP Meeting By James M. Harris, DVM The U.S. Section of the Interna- tional Council for Bird Preservation (ICBP) was held in August at San Franciso State University. Two new organizations were approved for membership: The Peregrine Fund and Nature Conservancy. Much concern was expressed about the Spotted Owl. Its Northwest habitat is under heavy logging, and its numbers are in serious decline. Old conifer growth is needed by these birds (2200 acres/pair in California and 4000 acres/pair in Washington) and other species in jeopardy. The growth in cleared areas supports Barred Owls who appear to be replacing Spotted Owls. Although the Spotted Owl is on some states' VOL.1 NO.5 1987 215</page><page sequence="2">Avion Conservcation News endangered list, it is not on the U.S. list. The ICPB passed a resolution declaring that the population of Spotted Owls on the Olympic penin- sula is endangered and the rest of the population is threatened. Based on data monitored over the past five years, gill net fishing has been found to be responsible for large takes of seabirds in California. The population of Common Murres declined by 58% during this time. The data have had political and legal impact. Legislation is now pending to prevent gill netting north of Point Reyes, and to close other areas with potentially low cost losses to fishermen. It is believed recovery of the Murre population will be a slow process. Andean Condors are serving as sur- rogates for California Condors in preparation for the eventual release of the captive-reared California en- dangered species. New ranges are be- ing sought using Andean Condors as test birds. Released birds will need to be taught foraging behavior as there are no wild birds to teach them. They will need human help in feeding (as has been the case for the past one hundred years). The condor issue appears to have good coopera- tion between government and naturalists. Cuba is continuing its conservation efforts regarding the Ivory-billed Woodpecker: the main highway was diverted 150 miles, and formerly assigned lumberjacks have now been reassigned as "protectors of the forest'". Ten people have now sighted birds including a member of the Central Committee. COMING UP... Spring, 1988 - Preventive Medicine A small section of this issue will also address "Preventive Medicine for Avian Practitioners". Because avian clinicians are sometimes subjected to stress beyond the normal level for veterinarians (e.g., increased noise level of patients, less documented material, unapproved drugs), we'd like to hear how avian practitioners manage stress (and avoid "burn-out"). Please submit applicable IME's by February 15, 1988. Hospitalized Patients Will be Getting More... ...And That's the Best Reason of All Functional, Versatile AICU ANIMAL INTENSIVE CARE UNIT Tested for safety and efficacy by Hannis L. Stoddard, III, DVM CALL OR WRITE FOR INFORMATION AND FREE BROCHURE ciQs ~J e~e ~0Sy 0+\ ~ N9 ~pOV e9b'0~ $0+0 0+ ~E ~ C9a ,C~ e b{o\\\9o .c9a~ ~ 9 e ~~y ` 20 \oa*oceb* 0C0S 9\X0 09N 0+ e p~ $0 90 cC-)j p~ 9e~ ,)?'i vx %,~s a0 E P ,ir+ C.Pe Joudyus -o at hic ANIMAL CARE PRODUCTS 3179 Hamner Ave., Suite 6, Norco, CA 91760 (714) 371-2465</page></plain_text>