<plain_text><page sequence="1">Viewpoint Keith Dickins Update on Australian Import - Export Question Mr. Dickins is President of the Parrot Society of Australia (New South Wales) and Assistant Secretary of the Association of Bird Keepers and Traders (ABT). APT is a political lobby group recently established by the aviculture industry to balance the viewpoints of the well-organized and well-financed animal liberation groups in Australia (in Sydney alone, there are 54 such groups). The ABT is currently producing a series of films and videotapes on Australian parrots in captivity and in the wild with the intention of preparing a video equivalent of Fors haw's illustrated books on parrots. The comments presented here, from a seminar held during Kay tee's Great American Bird Show, are Mr. Dickins'personal views and do not necessarily reflect the views of the organizations he represents. JF\ s many aviculturists are aware, the last legal imports of avian species into Australia were in 1935 and the last legal exports from Australia were in 1969. At this particular point in time, the import and export situation in Australia is looking better for those people who are promoting these activities. In the past year there have been two independent studies delivered to the government (one by Snowden, head of the Australian National Health and Quarantine Institute and one by Bulmer from the Canadian Department of Agriculture), both of which recommended that the bans against importation and exportation of avian species be lifted. Potential Importation Because of the grave concern over the introduction of exotic diseases to Australia and a recent incidence involving smuggling by two prominent aviculturists, I believe that within two years, under strictly controlled circumstances, importation of aviary bred species from specific Newcastle disease-free regions will be allowed into Australia. I understand that some level of appropriation has been made and plans are being drawn up for what is reported to be the most secure quarantine facility in the world. The proposed location is Torres Island off Adelaide in South Australia. Although the original plans for such a quarantine facility were intended for the poultry industry, this group is no longer interested, so when the facility does come into existence, it will be primarily for aviculture. The import operation will probably have to be subsidized, however, because the cost will be greater than what aviculturists would be able to pay. Potential Exportation The report that recommended controlled exportation of Australian species did not specify whether this refers to exportation of wild caught pest species or aviary bred Australian native species. My impression is that the majority of the avicultural community is against the export of adult wild caught species. My personal opinion is that the American avicultural community would not want these birds in a general sense. The market in the U.S. wouldn't be able to support the large numbers of wild caught birds they are talking about (i.e., quarter of a million birds per year) and the prices would crash. I believe that would be a very short term, short sighted effort. Even the potential export of aviary bred native Australian species is not overwhelmingly supported. Most Australian aviculture interests are small operations who are concerned about what impact the exportation of aviary bred native birds will have on them. The majority of aviary bred Australian native species range from $120 to $200. There is little incentive to breed even some of the $200 birds because there are so many coming out of the wild. In Australia, galahs, Sulfur crested cockatoos and King parrots do not breed well in captivity. Plum-heads are easy to get to lay eggs, but raising viable young is difficult. There is no evidence to suggest that Australian species breed any more readily for Australian aviculturists than they do in the U.S. Exportation of aviary bred Australian native species would be expected to reduce stock that is available to the Australian aviculturist, increase the price over what the "average" aviculturist could pay, and have the side effect of increasing the demand for endangered species, which, of course, would not be exported. In my opinion it is extremely unlikely that such species as Gang Gangs or Major Mitchells would ever be allowed to leave the country. Gang Gangs don't breed particularly well, and it is especially difficult to identify the individuals; because of their exceptionally short tarsus, banding is singularly unsuccessful. We are looking into electronic identification methods such as those using surgical implants, because it is only by such fail safe mechanisms (which would be supplied by the government body) that the export of avian species from Australia would be allowed. If you think you want these birds in America, and you believe you have a case for getting them, it's up to you to state your case. Unfortunately, we in Australia can't say, "These birds are great as pets," and it appears that the veterinary journals and other literature support our opinion. AAV TODAY VOL1 NO.1 1987 31</page></plain_text>