<plain_text><page sequence="1">3415 the two needles, it appears that at the time when an increase took place in the intensity of the dipping-needle, that of the horizontal- needle underwent a corresponding diminution, and vice versd. On comparing these results with the hypothesis of a rotation of the ge- neral polarizing axis of the earth about its mean position as a centre, and employing for this investigation the formule given by Mr. Bar- low, in his Essay on Magnetic Attractions, it is found that the radius of this circle of rotation is very nearly eight minutes. The magni- tude of this radius, however, will be considerably influenced by the sun's declination. The change of intensity of the dipping-needle, in as far as it is owing to a variation of the dip, would be only in the proportion of 3726 to 3732; whereas its actual amount is found to be one eighty- third part of the whole. This, therefore, seems to imply changes in the general magnetic intensity of the earth. But the author, limit- ing his present inquiry to the variations in the dip, concludes that the times of the day when these changes are the greatest and the least, are such as indicate a constant inflexion of the magnetic pole towards the sun during the diurnal rotation, and to point to the sun as the primary agent in the production of these changes. Experiments relative to the Effect of Temperature on the refractive Index and dispersive Power of Expansible Fluids, and on the In- fluence of these Changes in a Telescope with a flutid Lens. By Peter Barlow, Esq. F.R.S. 8&amp;c. Read May 15, 1828. [Phil. Trans. 1828, p. 313.] In a paper lately read to the Society, the author stated that he had not perceived any change in the focal length of the telescope, induced by changes of temperature; but he has since ascertained that in order to produce the brightest and most perfect image, the distance of the object-glass requires a minute adjustment, amounting to 0 134 of an inch, corresponding to an elevation of temperature from 57? to 84?, or a depression from 570 to 31?. In order to introduce greater clearness and precision, the author proceeds to define certain terms which he finds it necessary to em- ploy. By the length of the telescope, he would be understood to mean the distance between the object-glass and the focus; by the fluid focus, that between the fluid lens and the focus; and by the focal power of the telescope, he means the focal length of a telescope of the usual construction, which gives the same convergency to the rays, or produces an image of the same size: but he also employs the term focal length of the telescope, as synonymous with the first; that of fluid focal length as synonymous with the second; and that of equivalent focal length as synonymous with the last of these terms. As it is difficult to determine the refractive index of the fluid under different circumstances, from which their effects on the focal power of the telescope might be computed, the author endeavoured to as- certain, by direct observations, the effect of changes of temperature</page><page sequence="2">34-6 on the power of the telescope, and thence computes the correspond- ing change in the refractive index of the fluid. The result is the amount of adjustment already stated. The correction for angular measurements was the 60th part of a second in every minute, for every degree of thermometric change; a quantity, Mr. Barlow ob- serves, which is too small to deserve notice, except in cases of ex- treme delicacy. The dispersions at 310 and at 84? are in the ratio of 3067 to 3084. The change in the refractive index between 32? and 2120, supposing it to increase uniformly, would be about one tenth of the whole,-a proportion which is very nearly the same as the actual expansion of the fluid. Hence it is considered as probable, that in this and all other expansible fluids, the index of refraction varies directly as the density. On the other hand it would appear, that the dispersive ratio remains, at all temperatures, constantly the same. On some Circumstances relating to the Economy of Bees. By Thomas Andrew Knight, Esq. F.R.S. President of the Horticultural So- ciety. Read May 22, 1828. [Phil. Trans. 1828, p. 319.] The author had already stated, in a former communication to the Royal Society, his having noticed that for several days previous to the settling of a swarm of bees in the cavity of a hollow tree adapted to their reception, a considerable number of these insects were in- cessantly employed in examining the state of the tree, and particu- larly of every dead knot above the cavity which appeared likely to admit water. He has since had an opportunity of observing that the bees who performed this task of inspection, instead of being the same individuals as he had formerly supposed, were in fact a con- tinual succession of different bees; the whole number in the course of three days being such as to warrant the inference that not a single labouring bee ever emigrates in a swarm without having seen its proposed future habitation. He finds that the same applies not only to the place of permanent settlement, but also to that where the bees rest temporarily, soon after swarming, in order to collect their numbers. The swarms, which were the subjects of Mr. Knight's experiments, showed a remarkable disposition t3 unite under the same queen. On one occasion a swarm, which had arisen from one of his hives, settled upon a bush at a distance of about twenty-five yards; but in- stead of collecting together into a compact mass, as they usually do, they remained thinly dispersed for nearly half an hour; after which, as if tired of waiting, they singly, one after the other, and not in obedience to any signal, arose and returned home. The next morn- ing a swarm issued from a neighbouring hive, and proceeded to the same bush upon which the other bees had settled on the preceding day; collecting themselves into a mass, as they usually do when their queen is present. In a few minutes afterwards a very large assemblage of bees arushed from the hive from which the former</page></plain_text>