<plain_text><page sequence="1">-57 ln My Experience. . . DISCLAIMER Please be clear that the information presented through the A.A.V. Newsletter is not necessarily based on scientific data, is not refereed, and therefore is not really suitable for referencing. The purpose of the Newsletter is to offer the opportunity for avian practitioners to share ideas and experiences they have had in the area of cage and pet bird medicine and surgery. Anyone using material from this publication does so at his own risk. IN THIS ISSUE. . . IME 366 DISSATISFACTION WITH PORTABLE DIAGNOSTIC SCOPE IME 367 SUGGESTION FOR CRUSTY POX EYES IME 368 IN RESPONSE I.M.E. 341 - PARAKEET SYNDROME IME 369 FURTHER NOTES ON IVERMECTIN IME 370 RESPONDING TO USE OF CLAFORAN IME 371 AVIAN OPHTHALMOLOGY NOTES IME 372 AVOIDING CHILLY FLUID THERAPY IME 373 OBSERVATIONS .. GIARDIASIS IN COCKATIELS IME 374 AMIKACIN COME OF AGE IN VETERINARY MEDICINE IME 375 SURVEY OF BACTERIOLOGIC FLORA OF CONJUNCTIVA AND CORNEA IN HEALTHY PSITTACINE BIRDS IME 376 URIC ACID VALUES IME 377 USE OF IMMUNOREGULIN IN BIRDS IME 378 FLEXIBLE LIGHT AS A DIAGNOSTIC TOOL IME 379 GLUCOSE DIAGNOSTIC STRIP IME 380 TESTING FOR BLOOD IN FECES IME 381 SEMEN COLLECTION AS A METHOD OF SEXING AN AFRICAN GREY IME 382 USE OF L.O.C. IN CLEANING OILED BIRDS IME 383 LYMPHOID AGGREGATES IME 384 STORAGE OF I.V. VIBRAMYCIN IME 385 CROP ASPIRATION - TECHNIQUE, CYTOLOGY AND EVALUATION OF CONTENTS IME 386 DIABETES IN A BUDGERIGAR - A CASE HISTORY IME 387 INTESTINAL PARASITES IN CAPTIVE BIRDS IME 388 COBAN USE IN PET BIRDS IME 389 USE OF INJECTABLE DRONCIT IN BIRDS IME 390 A POSITIVE ASPERGILLUS CULTURE DOES NOT MEAN ASPERGILLOSE IME 391 SUTURING THE AVIAN EYE IME 392 DILATING THE EYE FOR DIAGNOSIS AND TREATMENT IME 393 INTRAMEDULLARY BONE PRODUCTION IME 394 USE OF BIOLOGICAL MODIFIERS IME 395 RADIOGRAPHIC SUGGESTIONS IME 396 ELUSIVE PET BIRD VIRUSES IME 397 COMMENTS ON SPRADDLE LEG IME 398 PAPOVAVIRUS IN LARGER PSITTACINES? IME 399 VITAMIN A DEFICIENCY IME 400 CALCIUM VERSENATE IME 401 SOUND FAMILIAR? The American Association of Avian Patholgists announces the pulication of a second edition of its AVIAN DISEASE MANUAL, with sections reviewed and up-dated by additional contributing authors. Send Sil.00 (payable to American Association of Avian Pathologists) to: A.A.A.P., University of Pennsylvania, New Bolton Center, Kennett Square, PA 19348-1692.</page><page sequence="2">-58 IME 366 . . DISSATISFACTION WITH PORTABLE DIAGNOSTIC SCOPE Regarding IME 310, I have not been pleased at all with the purchase of the hand-held diagnostic scope (Focuscope). I bought the instrument from the display at the Atlanta AAV meeting, as I was just getting into birds and was not ready to commit $2000 for a fiberoptic endoscope. However, I have been disappointed ever since in spending the $600 for the Focuscope and in what the instrument was sold for -- sexing birds. The tool is basically an otoscope handle with a rigid 8-9,f light probe. Visibility with it inside the bird is very poor and is easily obscured by any type of fluid. Reflections off the air sacs also interfere with visualization. It is difficult to manipulate the instrument -- it takes two good hands just to manage it. The Focuscope head is not precise and will easily misalign. More than once the light source has gone out just as I was entering the bird, and the bulb itself has burned out twice. Any advantages of the Focuscope are totally obscured by the frustrations encountered with its use. The instrument now sits on a shelf gathering dust, and I have gone back to using my regular otoscope until I can purchase what I was looking for all along -- a fiberoptic endoscope. ? David A. Perrett, D.V.M. Pensacola, FL IME 367 . . SUGGESTION FOR CRUSTY POX EYES Regarding IME 358, the crusty eye accumulations on pox birds can be softened and loosened with a solution of Johnson &amp; Johnson1s No More Tears shampoo. First recommended by ophthalmologists at Penn for use around eyes of dogs with severe seborrhea, the non-irrita ting shampoo is mixed with water (^-^ tsp. shampoo with \ -\ cup water) and applied 2-4 times a day to the birds' eyes with a cotton tipped applicator. The bulk of the scab will soften and come off in 3 to 5 days without irritation or damage to the eye. -- Wilbur Amand, V.M.D. Philadelphia Zoological Gardens IME 368 . . IN RESPONSE TO I.M.E. 341 - PARAKEET SYNDROME Selenium-Vitamin E responsive cases, in my experience, have most often been associated with giardiasis, presumably preventing absorption of these nutrients. Histopathologic exams of cockatiel and budgerigar aviary dieoffs due to Giardia, will often show skeletal and cardiac muscle changes consistent with white muscle disease. Treatment for Giardiasis and IM Vitamine E/Selenium often resolves the non-specific "peripheral neuropathies" and non-specific lamenesses. ? Alan Fudge, D.V.M. Sacramento, CA IME 369 . . FURTHER NOTES ON IVERMECTIN Regarding IME 322, I have also used ivermectin (Eqvalan - Merck) for successful treatment of ascarids in birds and reptiles, at the recommended dose of 200 micrograms/kg. A very severe Plasmodium infection in a heron (virtually every RBC and some WBC's infected) cleared a few days after injection and has remained clear for several weeks. A 1:100 dilution with normal saline is made for each inj. ? Alan Fudge, D.V.M. Sacramento, CA</page><page sequence="3">-59 IME 370 . . RESPONDING TO USE OF CLAFORAN Regarding IME 337, Dr. Rosskopf states, "Because it is only specific against many gram negative pathogens, it can be used long term without fear of destroying the gram positive normal flora.11 The manufacturer, HOECHST-ROUSSEL states in their literature that Claforan has in vitro activity against StaphyIococcus aureus (penicillinase and non-penicillinase producing strains), Staphy I ococcus epidermidis, Streptococcus pyogenes, Streptococcus agalactiae, Streptocuccus pneumoniae, Clostridium species excluding Clostridium difficile, Peptococcus species, and Peptostreptococcus species. Indications for Claforan use in human medicine include pneumonias, bone, joint and soft tissue infections due to suscep tible gram positive organisms. In two years clinical experience with Claforan in avian and canine patients, I have not recognized intestinal floral disturbances. ? Richard W. Slevin, D.V.M. Fair Oaks, CA IME. 371 . . AVIAN OPHTHALMOLOGY NOTES Corneal abrasions in birds are very common, especially in recently shipped birds. Treatment includes proper diagnosis, application of a broad spectrum antibiotic eye drop such as Gentocin Ophthalmic drops, and in severe cases, closure of the eye using eyelid sutures. Do bacterial and fungal cultures on all eyes that don't respond rapidly. Use extreme caution when using steroics in the eye. I have seen some spectacular disasters in 24 hours after steroid use with corneal abrasions and corneal ulcers. Don't expect perfection in a short period of time as the cornea may take six months or more to replace all cell layers. A blue eye (corneal edema) is also a common problem in re cently imported birds. Often these eyes are much larger than the normal eye, there could be no discharge to a significant muco purulent discharge, leukomas may be present as well as anterior synechia (adherent leukoma), and corneal erosions or ulcers. Don't assume that these are old static lesions that cannot be helped. Often they have a subclinical infection deep within the cornea. A complete ophthalmological exam is indicated, no matter how static the eye looks. Always start with a culture (probably two: one for bacteria, one for fungus) and Include flourescein stain. Many will show a bacterial, chlamydial, mycoplasma or fungal (Aspergillus sp.) infection. Clearing this up often improves the appearance of the eye significantly, although a return to a normal appearance is rare. -- David McCluggage, D.V.M. Brighton, CO IME 372 . . AVOIDING CHILLY FLUID THERAPY A heated box (such as an old incubator) is very handy for keeping ringer's and saline warm and ready for parenteral avian fluids. That 70? ringer's injection could finish off the very ill patient. ? Alan Fudge, D.V.M. Sacramento, CA</page><page sequence="4">-60 IME 37 3 . . OBSERVATIONS . . GIARDIASIS IN COCKATIELS We have noticed large numbers of cockatiels with giardial infec tions. Versus the parakeets, it is not associated with a high mor tality - rather, it seems to be a more chronic process. The birds are often asymptomatic, or present with only slightly changed feces which the owner has not noticed. If they are showing signs, the most common ones we see are: 1) thin and eating well and/or 2) extremely poor featheration + pruritis. The feathers are character istically "greasy" looking. I assume the malabsorption of folate, fat soluble vitamins, disaccharides and fats associated with the infection has, over the months, a direct effect on feather growth and water/weather proofing --hence the greasy feathers. A fair percentage of these birds are pruritic as well - it is hard to tell what came first, but I think that the improper feather growth may be irritating to the bird or cause increased preening efforts and secondary self trauma, the pruritic bird being the end result. This does not encompass the answer though, as we have scraped, pulled feathers, etc. - can never find any external parasites in such birds ? and, if cleared of the infection, the birds seem to stop the self trauma within about 6 weeks (or sooner). I can't help but wonder what else is in volved here besides the feather growth therefore could it be an allergic rx? (Urticaria has been documented in human cases of giar diasis. ) We treat the cockatiels with .6% Emtryl, gavage tubed every 12 hours (as described in one of the previous AAV Newsletters). We have also been using Ipropran (ipronidazole) at .5 gm/gal for 7 days with good success. We routinely gram stain the droppings of all birds on a re check, as it seems that many cases are, somewhere during the treat ment, or shortly thereafter, picking up gram negative enteric infections - yeast, which can mislead one into thinking that the bird has the giardia still, (Human literature supports this - a certain number of ,funresolveableM giardial cases which responded transiently to the use of Flagyl, were later found [on autopsy] to be gut stasis and bacterial overgrowth problems.) We feel that if the giardia are there, there is a good chance something else is too! I'd like to comment on something else we've noticed in treating some of the more refrac tory cases. We have gotten quite a few cockatiels with oral/phar yngeal yeast infections after prolonged use (i.e. multiple treatments) with the drug. No yeast, etc. in a fecal or cloacal culture or gram stain, i.e. it appears to be localized. Has anyone else had this experience? I wonder if these nitro-imidazole drugs (which are potent anaerobe killers) are somehow affecting the "as-of-yet-unrecognized normal flora (anaerobic or aerobic) of the oral m.m."...(thought I'd throw out the question - maybe someone out there has done re search in some obscure lab....) With regard to diagnosing the disease - v/e have found it very helpful to have clients collect fresh droppings into a vial with PVA (polyvinyl alcohol) in it and drop it off to us. We stain the preserved fecals with Trichrome, and have diagnosed a surprising number of previously negative birds this way. It is great for recheck, or for avi culturists with multiple birds. I think the actual number of in fected birds is fairly high in our area, based on this technique. (Again, as with humans, 10-50% of the cases later diagnosed posi tive by duodenal apsiration/biopsy were negative on multiple fecals.)</page><page sequence="5">-61 One last note -- rio treatment will work if the owner is not willing to put the same effort into sanitation and quarantine and screening of new additions. And don't forget, certain areas are endemic for the organism -- if in doubt, boil the drinking water to destroy cysts. -- Karen E. Roertgen, D.V.M. Sacramento, CA IME 374 . . '"AM I AC IN COMES OF AGE IN VETERINARY MEDICINE Amikaqin sulfate has been on the human market for a few years. This later generation aminoglycoside is superior in vitro to its predecessors. The problem has been its cost: ten 100 mg vials (Amikin - Bristol) sell for $80-100. Recently, Bristol Veterinary Division started marketing amikacin under a veterinary label (Amiglyde-V). It is billed as a brand new product, unlike anything before (it is actually a derivative of kanamycin). It is marketed as a horse intrauterine infusion @ 1.0 gram/4 ml in a pack of six one-gram vials for $55-60, a 90% reduction (on a mg. basis) in cost over the human product. The new product can be diluted as desired with^normal saline. indications for use are for the septic bird, pending culture results and where indicated, based on culture results. Please don't use it routinely, as we'd like to see it be effective for at least a few more years. Empirical dosage recommendations for birds are f20-40 mg/kg IM, s.i.d. or b.i.d. ? Alan M. Fudge, D.V.M. Sacramento, CA IME 375 . . SURVEY OF ACTERIOLOGIC FLORA OF CONJUNCTIVA AND CORNEA IN HEALTHY PSITTACINE BIRDS (Summary of paper presented for publication) A total of 151 eyes from healthy psittacine birds were examined by bacteriologic cultural methods. No bacterial growth was found in 41% of eyes cultured, Staphylococcus epidermitis was found in '25%, ?&lt;-Hemolytic streptococci in 25%, Corynebacterium spp in 7%, and Staphylococcus areus in 5%. Each of the following organisms were found in 1% of the eyes: Pasteurella spp, Actino bacillus spp, Escherichia coli, Klebsiella spp, Enterobacter spp, Pseudomonas spp, Proteus spp, and Bacillus spp. More than one bacterial species was found in numerous eyes. Psittacines from an import station had a greater occurrence of ocular bacteria growth than did birds from private owners. The frequency of ocular bacterial growth and types of bacteria isolated were similar to studies from dogs and cats. ? R.D. Zenoble, D.V.M., M.S. Auburn University R.W. Griffith, D.V.M., Ph.D. Iowa State University S.L. Clubb, D.V.M. Pet Farm, Miami, FL IME 376 . . URIC ACID VALUES Uric acid is the best parameter we have for evalu ating the renal system. Nor mal values are considered be tween 12-15. Renal impairment is usually considered at 30 or more, however, severe trauma or starvation can also elevate this value. Robert Altman, D.V.M. Franklin Square, N.Y.</page><page sequence="6">-62 IME 377 . . USE OF IMMUNOREGULINR IN BIRDS We have been doing some pre liminary work in birds with Immuno Regulin (ImmunoVet, Inc.), a killed bacterin designed to be used as a biological response mod ifier. The product, which is a several generation development of Propionibacterium acnes, shows promise, especially in viral cases where, theoretically, some "beef ing up" of the immune system would allow supportive care to be more effective in the patient's recovery. I have been using initial doses of .03-.05 cc for a cocka tiel (up to .2 cc for a macaw), administered preferably IV, but acceptably IP. Since it is made from a bacterin, there is some localized tissue inflammation and soreness if given IM. I have been diluting the compound with a vita min/amino acid/glucose mixture before giving it (fgr example, .1 cc ImmunoRegu^in + .9 cc Beecham's AA1000 for an amazon). Clinical cases of bacterial and/or chlamydial disease are be ing treated by classical means, but when ImmunoRegulin is added to the standard therapy, the birds seem to respond faster. In one case of an "undiag nosed virus11 in an aviary, five large psittacines (cockatoos and macaws) were ^ost in 24 hours. ImmunoRegulin was administered to the remaining 100 large par rots and the deaths stopped. None of the product was given to the smaller species and 14 more birds from this untreated group died. Possibilities for use in clude preventative administration in anticipation of exposure to potential disease organisms, such as prior to a boarding situation or importation. Low doses could be given once a week (maximum of twice a week) for 2-3 weeks prior to the exposure. While we do not yet have clear cut recommendations, we are working to establish protocol for use and evaluation of this exciting new biologic. ? E. Lee Duke, D.V.M. Thonotosassa, FL I ME 378 . . FLEXIBLE LIGHT AS A DIAGNOSTIC TOOL A flexible dental light can be gently inserted just inside the cloaca to illuminate the abdominal organs in small birds. The feathers can be wet and separated into tracts for better visualization. ? Robert Taussig, D.V.M. Kansas State University I ME 379 . . GLUCOSE DIAGNOSTIC STRIP A pediatric diagnostic test for glucose in whole blood (Chemstrip bG - BioDynamics, 9115 Hage Rd., Indianapolis, IN 46250) has been useful in avian practice. The test strip provides sensitivity to varying glucose levels ranging from 20 mg/dl to 800 mg/dl. ? George Kollias, D.V.M., Ph.D. University of Florida IME 380 . . TESTING FOR BLOOD IN FECES Blood in the feces is best detected by Hemoccult slide by Smith Kline Diagnostics. Results can be read in 30-60 seconds and can be compared to pogitive and negative standards on the same test paper. Hemacombistix very frequently give false positives.</page><page sequence="7">-63 Hemoccult helps with differential diagnosis of red colors from ingested food or other foreign material. ? Ronald R. Spink, D.V.M. Cape Coral, FL IME 381 . . SEMEN COLLECTION AS A METHOD OF SEXING AN AFRICAN GREY The massage techniques commonly used for semen collection in turkeys were applied to a fourteen year old pet African grey parrot of unknown sex. The procedure was repeated once or twice daily for four days with no response. On the fifth day when the bird was returned to its cage, the vent was observed to be pro truded and pulsating. Glass slides pressed to the vent, dried, stained and examined microscopically revealed many characteristic avian spermatozoa. While this technique is of very limited value since it can only be used with very cooperative birds, it did provide positive identification of the sex of this bird and may have application for other select pet birds. ? Keith M. Betzen, D.V.M. Stillwater, OK IME 382 . . USE OF L.O.C. IN CLEANING OILED BIRDS Amway's L.O.C. cleaning compound has been useful in cleaning oil-covered birds when nothing else would work, including Dawn detergent. In one case, a screech owl was feeding in an open garbage can when hot chicken grease was inadvertently poured over him. Full strength L.O.C. was worked into the feathers, and he was rinsed and blown dry with a hair dryer. Burns around the negk, legs and feet were carefully treated twice daily with Foille , a burn ointment. The bird fully recovered and was released in 10 days. A barred owl that flew into a pan of crank case oil full of filings, and a beached loon with moderate amounts of tar on his feathers also successfully responded to cleaning with L.O.C. The product contains no petroleum distillates and doesn't seem to harm the birds. In the case of the loon, the bird ate the following morning and v/as soon back in the water with no loss of feather vitality. -- Jean Henry Martin Co. Audubon Wildlife Hospital, FL IME 383 . . LYMPHOID AGGREGATES With the exception of some aquatic species, birds have sub serosal lymphatic aggregates in areas of the gastrointestinal and respiratory systems. Endoscopic observation of these normal structures should not be confused with pathologic plaque-like lesions of a variety of etiologies. -- George Kollias, D.V.M., Ph.D. University of Florida IME 384 . . STORAGE OF I.V. VIBRAMYCIN Reconstituted I.V. Vibramycin can be frozen and stored for up to a year. Use sterile diluent vials for 1 cc doses. -- Greg J. Harrison, D.V.M. Lake Worth, FL</page><page sequence="8">-64 IME 385 CROP ASPIRATION - TECHNIQUE, CYTOLOGY AND EVALUATION OF CONTENTS Technique: Some birds (i.e. canaries, owls, and gulls) do not have crops. However, birds with crops showing signs of vomiting, regurgitation, or any crop dis order should have their crop con tents aspirated and evaluated. Materials needed include a mouth speculum (i.e. paper clip for small birds), soft rubber or plas tic tubing (i.e. Sovereign sterile disposable feeding tubes), and a sterile syringe. Feeding tube sizes should be #5 French for finches and canary-size birds, #8 French for parakeets, cocka tiels, and lovebirds, and #14-18 French for large parrots. The head and neck should be extended to straighten the eso phagus to avoid puncturing the thin esophageal wall. The tube is inserted at the left side of the mouth and allowed to cross over the tongue into the esopha gus on the right side of the neck. The tube should pass freely into the crop, and the end can usually be palpated through the skin and crop wall. If any resistance is met, the procedure should be stopped and repeated. The tube should not be forced into the crop because the esophageal and crop walls are easily punctured. A visual check to insure the tube is not within the trachea can be made in large birds. The crop content can be as pirated into a syringe attached to the exposed end of the tube using gentle vaccum. The aspir ated material can be submitted for bacteriological and/or myco logical culturing and smears can be made for microscopic examina tion. Wet mount sildes are used to identify trichomonads and stained smears are required to de tect candidiasis, ingluvitis, etc. Cytology of Normal Crop As pirates : Normal crop content con tains a variable number of corni fied and noncornified squamous eipithelial cells. There is usu ally a moderate amount of back ground debris and frequently many amorphous crystals can be seen (often resembling calcium carbonate crystals). There are a variable number of extracell ular bacteria of a variety of morphological types (predomin ately Gram positive bacteria). A rare Candida-like yeast would also be accepted as normal. Candidiasis: The crop aspirate from a bird with Can didiasis of the crop will show large numbers of Candida yeasts. These yeasts are oval, thin walled budding yeasts that mea sure 3-6 in diameter. They stain Gram positive with Gram stains and blue with Diff Quik, new methylene blue, or Wright stains. There is usually a marked amount of background de bris. Inflammatory cells (het erophils and macrophages) may or may not be present. Pseudo hyphae will be seen in severe cases where tissue invasion by the organism has occurred. The prognosis is very poor in these advanced cases, as the disease is probably systemic. Trichomoniasis: This dis ease is more commonly seen in pigeons, doves, and raptors but can occur in other birds as well. Crop content may show large numbers of trichomonad protozoa. The organisms are usually Tri chomonas gallinae which are ellipsoid or piriform flagellates measuring 5-19 . by 2-9 - and having four anterior flagella and an undulating membrane. These are best seen on a wet mount preparation as they move throughout the fluid. Ingluvitis: Inflammation of the crop (Tngluves) is known as ingluvitis. The crop content is characterized by the presence of many inflammatory cells (het erophils and macrophages) and an increased number of bacteria, protozoa, or yeast. Smears showing a large number of bacteria predominately of one morphological</page><page sequence="9">-65 type or many Gram negative rods (in seed eating birds) should be considered abnormal. "Sour Crop": The normal crop pH in seed eating birds ranges between 4.5 - 6.7. The crop content becomes acidic with a foul smelling fermenting odor when excessive lactate pro duction occurs. The cytology may show a large amount of background debris and a marked number of bacteria or yeasts. -- Terry Campbell, D.V.M. Kansas State University IME 386 . . DIABETES IN A BUDGERIGAR - A CASE HISTORY A male budgie of unknown age was presented for examination be cause of watery droppings. Exam ination of the droppings disclosed watery urates (polyuria) and care ful history described a polydyps ia. The estimated age based upon when the bird was found was 6-9 years. In-house laboratory work was as follows: PCV = 37% Blood Smear = No blood para sites, infrequent WBC's Worm Exam = Negative Urine Glucose = Strongly pos itive (Collected on a waxed paper tray) Blood Sugar = Was sent to Vet Reference Lab (Salt Lake City): 1,015 mg/dl By diluting 40 U. N.P.H. In sulin with the diluent provided by Eli Lilly &amp; Co., the following dilutions were prepared: .05 ml = 0.2 units .05 ml = 0.4 units Urine Glucose was measured every morning (8 a.m.) and ini tially, this 30 gm bird was giv en 0.2 U intramuscularly into the breast muscle. After one episode of hypoglycemia which was allevi ated with oral glucose, the bird was stabilized at 0.3 U NPH Insu lin. At 2\ hours post injection, the urine glucose was negative. At b\ hours, the urine glucose was light, at l\ hours, medium dark, and by 10 hours post injec tion, the urine sugar was back to the dark pre-injection level. (Urine Glucose was measured with the Ames Clinistix.) Droppings became normal in appearance in 3 hours, but re mained that way for only 3-4 hours. In my opinion, this bird would probably have done better on BID insulin as many human diabetics have found. Blood Sugar is the method of choice for determining the proper insulin level, urine sugar does not always correspond. After several weeks of home ther apy, the owner decided to stop all insulin therapy, and all dia betic symptoms reappeared. At the owner's insistence, oral dia betic therapy was tried. TD Diabinase (Chlorpropamide) Pfizer Tolinasg (Tolazamide) Upjohn Orinase (Tolbutamide) Upjohn All products were given or ally at 3-5 times the human dosage with no resultant change in urine sugar or symptoms of diabetes. (Tablets were crushed, appropri ate suspensions prepared, and administered via plastic dropper into the beak TID.) At this point, the owner chose to sus pend all therapy and in 10 days the bird died. This case history was pre sented, not because diabetes in birds is rare or has not been treated before (excellent work by Dr. Bob Altman, et. al. ), but rather because it points out the unusual avian metabolism and human frailties when it comes to regular long term control mea sures. The study also suggests even though only one case, that oral therapy is no more effec tive in birds than in human dia betics . -- Fred K. Soifer, D.V.M. Houston, TX</page><page sequence="10">-66 IME 387 . . INTESTINAL PARASITES IN CAPTIVE BIRDS (Chart extends across to next page.) PROTOZOA PARASITE HOST TRANSMISSION / LIFE CYCLE Trichomoniasis Trichomonas gallinae Raptors Pigeons (Also canaries, finches, budgies) Contamination of water sources Predation by raptors on infected birds Through pigeon crop milk to young Giardiasis Giardia lamblia (same species as infects man so zoonotic potential) Budgerigar Cockatiel (Toucan) Cysts passed in feces (vi able for 3 weeks) Fecal - oral transmission Trophozoites liberated from cysts in small intestine, multiply &amp; encyst in lumen, Coccidiosis Eimeria sp. Isospora sp, Galliforms Pigeons (Also budgies, finches) Oocysts passed in feces Fecal - oral transmission Sexual and asexual states in intestinal epithelium, resulting in oocyst for mation Histomoniasis Histomonas meleagridis Galliforms (Turkeys, peafowl) (Also rheas) The protozoa is transmitted by the ascarid, Heterakis gallinarum which can be transported by earthworms. II. HELMINTHS Capillaria spp. (Threadworms) All species (Especially raptors, canar ies) Direct life cycle Egg with infective larva is ingested; larvae develop into adults in epithelium of GI tract Ascarids Ascaridia spp. Porrocaecum spp Heterakis gall inarum Psittacines (Esp. Austral ian parakeets) Passerines, Raptors (Also other species) Galliforms Direct life cycle Acanthocephalan and Trematode infections are much more rare in cage birds. These parasites require intermediate hosts which usually are not present in the captive environment.</page><page sequence="11">-67 CLINICAL SIGNS PATHOLOGY DIAGNOSIS Anorexia Weight loss Caseous plaques in cavi ty, esophagus, crop (and upper res piratory system) Scrape lesion or do crop washing Look for Flagellate -characterized by 4 anterior flagellae -progressively motile Wasting Chronic mucoid diarrhea Up to 20-50% mortal ity Usually none Occ. distal small intes tine distended with yellow creamy material Organisms lie on surface GI epithelium and in terfere with absorp tion . Cysts in feces Trophozoites in in testinal scraping (Flagellate) Wasting Mucoid/ hemorr hagic diarr hea Distention, congestion Hemorrhage of small in testine Fecal smear or fecal flotation Look for double walled cysts (J to \ the size of ascarid egg) Acute death in young Wasting Focal (bull's eye) ne crosis of liver Necrotic typhlitis Characteristic path ology organisms on histo or cecal scrapings * Dysphagia due to obstruc tion Diarrhea when in testine involved Often none grossly Swelling of GI tract due to increased thickness of epithelium (Parasite can be found in oral cavity, esophagus, and small intestine) Eggs in feces or scrapings -flattened bipolar plugs -striated wall -oval Not speci fic Adults: obstruction of lumen, competition for nutrients, per foration Larvae: destruction due to migration in wall (Parasites in intestines) Eggs in feces -not embryonated -thick, mamil lated shell -round to oval HO (06 _) * Clinical signs for Capillaria spp. also include anemia, weakness due to loss of plasma proteins through disrupted epithelium.</page><page sequence="12">-68 IINTESTINAL PARASITES IN CAPTIVE BIRDS (Continued) PARASITE Spirurids Spiroptera incesta Dispharynx nasuta Tetrameres sp, (Others) HOST Psittacines (Esp. Austral ian parakeets) TRANSMISSION / LIFE CYCLE Passerines, formes galli Waterfowl (Also psittacines, raptors, pigeons) Indirect life cycle Arthropod intermediate host Ex: pillbug, cockroach Strongyle Amidostomum sp, Waterfowl Direct cycle - eggs larvate in water; infective lar vae are swallowed or penetrate skin - pene trate mucosa of ventri culus. Cestodes Many species Psittacines (Esp. Austral ian finches) Passerines Waterfowl Indirect life cycle (Hosts usually arthropods or annelid worms) IME 388 . . COBAN USE IN PET BIRDS Due to its anticoccidial effectiveness in a variety of other animals, it is presumed that Coban (monensin) may be used for this purpose in pet caged birds, but the safety and efficacy in these species is not known. The drug must make physical contact with an invasive stage of the coccidia in order to control them. The coccidia of domestic chickens belong to the genus Eimeria which spend the entirety of their life cycle in the intestine. Monensin is incorporated into the membrane of an invasive stage of the coccidia (sporozoite or merozoite) when the parasite is in the lumen of the intestine in search of a new host cell for completion of its development. Certain of the coccidia of the pet caged bird belongs to the genus Isospora and part of the life cycle of these coccidia may be extraintestinal (in other organs). Monensin may be ineffective against the developing extraintestinal stage of the parasite because a lethal concentration of the drug may not be present at the extraintestinal site of parasite development. This then could be interpreted to mean that monensin may be an effective preventative drug for such infections since excystation and release of the first invasive stage (the sporozoite) takes place in the intestine. However, monensin would probably not be effec tive as a treatment for the extraintestinal stage of the infection. To date, most experimental drug use data for monensin pertains to chickens, turkeys, ducks and quail. Extrapolation from these other species to pet birds is not recommended. Monensin safety trials in pet birds needs to be done. ?L. Dwight Schwartz, D.V.M. Extension Veterinarian The Pennsylvania State University</page><page sequence="13">-69 CLINICAL SIGNS PATHOLOGY DIAGNOSIS Acute death Wasting Wasting Swelling or nodules on mucosa of the proventriculus or ventriculus Eggs in feces -thick shelled -embryonated -oval Ulceration and necro sis of the ventricu lar mucosa Leads 'to exudative gas tritis Eggs in feces -thin shelled -not embryonated (will embryonate when exposed 5-10 hrs.) Wasting Catarrhal or hemorr hagic enteritis in testinal obstruction (Parasites in small in testine) Proglottids in feces Egg packets or eggs in feces -thick shelled -hexaconth onco sphere with 3 pairs of hooks 5r 76 A^?^nn Julie Langenberg, V.M.D. National Zoo Pathology Dept. IME 389 . . USE OF INJECTABLE DRONCIT IN BIRDS -The injectable form of praziquantel (Droncit - Haver Lockhart) shows promise as an effective cestocide in birds, A thin, puny African grey was diagnosed as having tapeworms and capillaria. A ,1 ml dose of Droncit was administered to the 1 kg bird IM, and the injection repeated in two weeks. (The capillaria were treated with a scaled down dog dose of menbenda zole (Telmintic - Pitman Moore, Inc.) for 5 days, which was also repeated in 2 weeks.) Shriveled tapeworm segments were passed in the stool, subsequent fecals were negative and the bird re sponded by putting on weight. A colleague also used Droncit empirically (.05 ml for a conure) for the successful treatment of tapeworms with no apparent adverse effect on the bird. ?Russell G. Gimre, D.V.M. Shawnee, KS IME 390 . . A POSITIVE ASPERGILLUS CULTURE DOES NOT MEAN ASPER GILLOSE, BUT ... Birds with severe respiratory sounds who culture positive for Aspergillus fumigatus (pharyngeal/tracheal) often, in my experience, turn out to have clinical aspergillosis. One has a strong case when a marked leukocytosis and monocytosis is present. ? Alan M. Fudge, D.V.M. Sacramento, CA</page></plain_text>