<plain_text><page sequence="1">Highlights of Chlamydial Symposium A Symposium on Avian Chlamydial Infection, Human Health and the Human-Animal Bond was held during the 1988 meeting of the American Veterinary Medical Association (AVMA) in Portland, Oregon. The following brief notes are from that Symposium. The complete papers will be published in the Journal of AVMA. Julius Schachter, San Francisco General Hospital: Chlamydiosis is most frequently diagnosed in humans by serology and seldom by culture. Priscilla Wyrick, Chapel Hill, North Carolina: C. psittaci is an obligate intracellular parasite, which means it must grow inside the cell. The growth phase of C. psittaci is synonomous with infection and disease in the host. Newer techniques can distinguish between the chlamydia affecting Columbiformes and Psittaciformes. Keven Flammer, North Carolina State University, Raleigh: For pro- phylaxis of chlamydiosis, the clinician needs to understand the developmen- tal and molecular biology of C. psit- taci and realize that treatment is ef- fective only when the cell containing the organism is metabolically active. That is the reason why prolonged therapy is required. We may not have a handle on what effective treat- ment is. From a therapeutic stand- point, we need to have the host in as good metabolic shape as possible in order to have any chance of clearing these birds. A post-treatment exam should be part of the plan. Herman Gerbermann, Oberscheissheim, West Germany: The relationship between blood levels of appropriate antibiotics and the treatment success is very ill-defined. A blood concentration as low as 0.1 gg/ml may be effective in some cases; in other cases, we have documented flocks that never came close to achieving therapeutic success on 1 /g/ml. David Graham, Texas A &amp; M University: Hepatomegaly is overrated in the clinical diagnosis of chlamydiosis. Although liver necrosis does occur in all species, less than 5% show gross lesions. Chlamydia cannot be diagnosed by histopathology. JoAnne Garbe, Rockville, Maryland: Personal legal recommen- dations for avian chlamydiosis: 1. General blood screen 2. Submission of samples 3. Provide the new pet bird owner with a description of the risks involv- ed in owning a pet bird, including the possibility of chlamydiosis. Avian veterinarians need to develop standards or guidelines for an appropriate avian examination for chlamydiosis; a practitioner who does not adhere to these standards would be liable. At this point the profession has no standards for this. Schacter: What we have discovered here today is that there is no perfect test or perfect treatment for chlamydiosis. The interest seems to be leaning in favor of ELISA tests, but one has to recognize there are problems associated with that test. Other bacteria that can be found in avian stool samples can be detected by the ELISA test; thus false positives may result. One can use this test as a screening mechanism. VOL.2 NO.4 1988 191</page></plain_text>