<plain_text><page sequence="1">Status of Native Hawaiian Dirds: I 25 GONE 6 20 GOING "If veterinarians are coming to I Hawaii to talk about avian medicine, they should know that we have a problem here that perhaps has never been seen in the world," says Peter Stine, of the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service in Honolulu. As a wildlife biologist working on the recovery of endangered birds, Stine is acutely aware of the decline of native | Hawaiian birds, especially those in I habiting remote rain forests. In _ I Hawaii, 25 species of the native birds have already become ex tinct over the last couple of hun dred years; there are 20 more species that are seriously en dangered right now. Probably the most famous of the endangered birds is the Nene goose, the state bird of Hawaii. Although successfully raised in captivity, the Nene goose in the wild still suffers from low pro ductivity and serious pr?dation from mongoose, and to a lesser degree, from feral cats. "The Nene is seriously en dangered and is only hanging on because we keep pumping birds in from the captive breeding program," noted Stine. When the number of captive-bred birds released to the wild was reduced from 100-200 birds per I vear in the 1970's to 50 per year in the 1980*s, the total wild popula- I tion continued to significantly decline. However, the captive breeding program will protect this species from extinction. In contrast to the Nene, the total numbers of many of the native forest birds are continuing to decline today without protection. Some are so rare that Hawaiians don't see them any more and they may already be ex tinct. Only one known individual of the Kauai-oo is left. During the last intensive count of the Hawaiian crow, the total wild population numbered no more than 2. It is so dif ficult to get good photographs of many of the species, public education must be done with drawings or paint ings of these birds. At least two significant studies of the native forest birds have occurred in the last 20 years. The first major sSf. %?# Drawing of Maul Parrotbill courtesy of H. Douglas Pratt, PhD. work to implicate disease resulted from the identification of avian malaria from blood smears. Al though it became widely com municated that malaria was the reason for extinction, some profes sionals believed those broad conclu sions were drawn from limited infor mation and circumstantial evidence. The second study determined that avian malaria was present in most of the species, native and exotic; that the native birds had a much higher in cidence of parasitemia than exotic birds; and the rarer birds had even higher levels than the more common native birds. It appeared that the distributional limits of the disease carrying mosquito at lower elevations dictated the distributional limits of the rarer native forest birds, which were found only at higher elevations. Mosquitoes, the vectors that transmit malaria, were in ? troduced to Hawaii about 150 years ago. One hypothesis sug gests that game birds that were introduced in the early part of the century and proliferated in the forest areas where the native birds live may have become the reservoir for the disease. The Crested Honeycreeper is one of the endangered native forest birds that may be af fected by avian diseases, although it does not seem to be as vulnerable as some other Ufa native birds. It has been further |lf| hypothesized that some of the j|||j native forest birds have ap 8p parently developed immunity to B the malaria. Avian pox has also ? I been suggested as a possible fac PPI tor in some species' decline. Investigating a problem like this in the field, especially in Hawaiian rain forests is difficult from the physical standpoint. Stine I says, " It is a very complex problem. " A new phase of research has recent ly been initiated by Patuxent Wildlife Research Center in cooperation with the National Wildlife Research Center in Madison, Wisconsin and the Mauna Loa Field Station, Hawaii Volcano National Park. The study will look at limiting factors of the native forest birds and the contem porary impact of avian diseases. VOL 1 NO 3 1987 105</page></plain_text>