<plain_text><page sequence="1">" A few remarks on the Helm Wind." By the Rev. William Wal- ton, of Allenheads, near Hexham. Communicated by P. M. Roget, M.D., Sec. R.S. On the western declivity ofa range of mountains, extending from Brampton, in Cumberland, to Brough, in Westmoreland, a distance of 40 miles, a remarkably violent wind occasionally prevails, blow- ing with tremendous violence down the western slope ofthe moun? tain, extending two or three miles over the plain at the base, oiten overturning horses with carriages, and producing much damage, especially during the period when ripe corn is standing. It is ac- companied by a loud noise, like the roaring of distant thunder: and is carefully avoided by travellers in that district, as being fraught with considerable da.iger. It is termed the helm wind; and its presence is indicated by a belt of clouds, denomisated the helm bar, which rests in front of the mountain, three or four miles west of its summit, and apparently at an equal elevation, remaining immove- able during twenty-four or even thirty-six hours, and collecting or attracting to itself all the light clouds which approach it. As long as this bar continues unbroken, the wind blows with unceasing fury, not in gusts, like other storms, but with continued pressure. This wind cxtends only as far as the spot where the bar is vertical, or imme? diately over head; while at the distance ofa mile farther west, as well as to the east ofthe summit of the mountain, it is not unfre- quently almost a perfect calm. The author details the particulars</page><page sequence="2">460 of an expedition which be made with a view to investigate the cir? cumstances of this remarkable meteorological phenomenon, and proposes a theory for its explanation. " A Meteorological Journal kept at Allenheads, 14*00 feet above the level ofthe Sea, from the 1st of May to the 1st of November, 1836." By the Rev. Wiliiam Walton. Communicated by P. M. Ro? get, M.D., Sec. R.S.</page></plain_text>