<plain_text><page sequence="1">95 The author next relates his experiments and observations upon the urine and urinary organs of lizards. He examined four species, -the gecko, iguana, the kobbera-guion, (described by Knox,) and the alligator. The kidneys vary in size; each ureter has a papilla situ- ated in the receptacle; in other respects the structure resembles that of snakes. The secretion is also nearly similar; that of the alligator contains, besides uric acid, carbonate and phosphate of lime; in one case it smelt strongly like musk. In two species of the testudo, Dr. Davy found the kidneys lobu- lated like those of the preceding animals. In the bladder both of the turtle and tortoise he found flakes of uric acid in a transparent liquid, containing mucus and common salt, but no urea. On a Mal-conformation of the Uterine System in Women; and on some Physiological Conclusions to be derived from it. In a Letter to Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. from A. B. Granville, M.D. F.R.S. F.L.S. Physician in ordinary to H. R. H. the Duke of Clarence; Member of the Royal College of Physicians, and Phy- sician-Accoucheur to the Westminster General Dispensary. Read April 16, 1818. [Phil. Trans. 1818, p. 308.] The uterus described in this paper had acquired its full develop- ment upon the right side only. The left side exhibited a straight line, about half an inch distant from its centre. Upon this side also all the appendages of the uterus were deficient, though their ru- diments might be traced. This woman was the mother of eleven children of both sexes, and had been delivered of twins, male and female, a few days before her death, which was occasioned by dis- eased heart and aneurism of the aorta. Dr. Granville remarks that this is the first case upon record which disproves the opinion that the different sides of the uterus are con- cerned in the production of the two sexes. It also shows that twins of both sexes may be derived from one ovarium. This paper concludes with some remarks upon supposed cases of superfcetation. New Experiments on some of the Combinations of Phosphorus. By Sir H. Davy, LL.D. F.R.S. V.P.R.I. Read April 9, 1818. [Phil. Trans. 1818, p. 316.] Since the author's former communication upon the above subject to the Royal Society, various researches have been brought forward, differing in their results from his own as well as from each other. Sir Humphry concluded that the phosphoric acid contained about three fifths its weight of oxygen, or twice that contained in the phosphorous acid. Berzelius considers the phosphoric acid as com- posed of 100 phosphorus + 128-17 oxygen; and Dulong, of 100 phosphorus + 124-5 oxygen: and both these chemists consider the</page></plain_text>