<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 17(1-2): 103-114, 1993 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest Graphs and multigraphs depict the change of community structure by scale M. Hauser Unit of Population Biology &amp; Department of Vegetation Ecology, University of Vienna, Althanst. #14, P.O.B. 285,A-1091 Vienna, Austria Keywords: Association, Coalition, Cross-classification, Dry grassland, Fusion. Abstract: The scale of investigation is an essential factor in community analysis. It is common sense that changes of scale by a factor of 10 and more depict often a completely different community structure. Even smaller changes of scale delineate dramatic changes of association for some groups of species but not so for others. Combining the results of pairwise cross-classifications for all species as sampled at various scales shows more or less scale invariant groups. A secondary dry grassland (F estuco- Caricetum humilis Sillinger 1930) has been investigated. A sample in form of a grid of contiguous quadrats has been used. In order to investigate the scale dependencies samples consisting of quadrats of larger window size have been produced by subsequent fusions of the original plots. Analyses of pairwise associations have been carried out with presence/absence data. The resulting graphs (showing the associations at only one level of scale) and multigraphs (combined views of samples at different scales) show changing both positive and negative associations for different plot sizes. The coalition of the winter annuals and moss species - found on shallow soils or on all but bare rocks - is the most scale independent. It can be separated from another group made up by Genista pilosa and Festuca carnuntina, which grow on deeper soils. The dominant matrix species Cara c humilis, growing primarily on deeper soils, is only negatively associated with all other species. It forms a group for itself alone, a so-called one-species group. 1. Introduction When investigating the structure of a community it is essential to consider the scale the sampling has been done at. Openshaw &amp; Taylor (1979) found "literally thousands of different r-values ranging from -0.97 to 0.99 for the same popula- tion" when calculating correlations between species at different plot sizes. This so-called modifiable areal unit problem is the essence of community analysis comparing differently sized plots and "... not [...] a problem and can be used with good effect to elicit useful information from the population" (Upton &amp; Fingleton 1985, p. 233). Sampling design, with an emphasis on the choice of plot sizes, has been rehearsed for ex- ample by Barkman (1989), Kenkel et al. (1989) or Juhász-Nagy (1992). The methods for measuring the degree of associa- tion between the objects (in our case species) are manifold. This can be done either using similarity coefficients (Janson &amp; Vegelius 1981, Jackson et al. 1989), information theory (Juhász-Nagy &amp; Podáni 1983, Bartha 1990), conditional prob- ability spectra (Galiano 1986), or ordination methods (Galiano 1983, Glenn-Lewin &amp; Ver Hoef 1988, Camiz &amp; Gergely 1990). The term association will be used in the sense that two species are considered to be positively as- sociated if they occur more often together in the same plots than two randomly dispersed species. Consequently two species are negatively asso- ciated if they are found together in the same plots less frequently than randomly dispersed ones. The other methodological problem that must be solv- ed is how to sample the same community at dif-</page><page sequence="2">104 Hauser: Graphs and multigraphs ferent scales. It was Greig- Smith (1952) who in- troduced the first method that could identify the size of patches. As the scale dependence of as- sociation (Greig-Smith 1983) and therefore the need for refined sampling designs are apparent, many expansions and modifications of the original method (Greig-Smith 1952) have been developed (see Upton &amp; Fingleton 1985 and Bouxin 1990 for general overviews). Computerized sampling (Podani 1987) allows a much greater variety of plot shapes to be chosen. Anisotropy, as found in (almost) all sampling areas, forbids the use of generalizing methods and can be coped with two dimensional analytical methods alone (Legendre &amp; Fortin 1989). In this paper I show that even in a narrow range of scales (quadrat sizes of 3, 6, 9, 12 and 15 cm) the associations between the members of one community change. The degree of interaction is a function of scale. The visualization of the ob- tained significant associations in the form of plexus graphs (Mcintosh 1973) can be carried out as long as the community consists of not too many members. But how to depict the degree of scale invariance of particular associations or coalitions? A quite straightforward way to do so is the com- bination of particular graphs into multigraphs (Godehardt &amp; Herrmann 1988). 2. Material &amp; Methods Sampling The sampling was carried out in a secondary dry grassland in the lower part of the Hexenberg near Hundsheim, Lower Austria. In that study area a mosaic of stony ridges, shallow and deeper soils covering various aspects form the basis for a well- structured vegetation cover. Floristic and faunistic descriptions of this particular region can be found in Wendelberger (1959), Niklfeld (1964) and Waitzbauer (1990). The sample was placed in vegetation covering shallow rendzina soils (soil depth between 0 and 15 cm) and has been carried out using a grid of 32 * 32 contiguous quadrats. Every quadrat had the size 3*3 cm. Because of methodical constraints only the presence of species has been recorded in every plot. The particular size of a quadrat is a compromise between the size of the individuals (e.g. young rosettes of Taraxacum laevigatum), patches of in- dividuals (e.g. Hornungia petraea, Cerastium Table 1. List of species found in the grid. Species used for analysis Abbreviation Allium montanum ALLMON Anthericum ramosum ANTRAM Arabis recta ARAREC Asperula cynanchica ASPCYN Bupleurum falcatum BUPFAL Carex humilis CARHUM Cerastium glutinosum CERGLU Dorycnium herbaceum agg. DORHER Echium vulgare ECHVUL Festuca carnuntina FESRUP Festuca pallens FESPAL Fumana procumbens FUMPRO Genista pilosa GENPIL Globularia elongata GLOELO Helianthemum canum HELCAN Helianthemum ovatum HELO VA Hornungia petraea HORPET Jurinea mollis JURMOL Melica ciliata MELCIL Sanguisorba minor SANMIN Seseli hippomarathrum SESHIP Syntrichia ruralis SYNTRI Taraxacum laevigatum agg. TARLAE Teucrium montanum TEUMON Thymus praecox THYPRA Tortello tortuosa TORTOR The following species have been found in less than 1% of the grid: Anthyllis vulneraria Arenaria serpyllifolia Bothriochloa ischaemum Erophila spathulata Inula ensifolia Linum taenuifolium Ortantha lutea Potentina arenaria Saxífraga tridactylites Scorzonera austriaca glutinosum, Syntrichia ruralis, Tortello tortuosa), plant parts (e.g. Allium montanum, Bupleurum fal- catum, Jurinea mollis), and spacers of clonal dwarf shrubs (e.g. Fumana procumbens, Teucrium chamaedrys &amp; T. montanum, Thymus praecox). Using larger quadrats would have been better for the detection of some individuals, like Taraxacum</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica (17) 1993 105 laevigatum, but on cost of less adequate resolution of size and form of moss patches. On the other hand, using a narrower mesh would have resulted in more plots to sample the same area. Sampling started in April 1989, when most of the ephemerals where still visible (mainly in fruit), and the rosettes of the autumn flowering species were big enough to be identified. The sampling continued until May 1989. Species that could not be determined in April/May were identified at later visits spanning as late as October 1989. 36 species were recorded in the grid: 34 vascular plant species and 2 mosses. From those only 26 species have been used for the analysis, as they oc- curred in at least 1% of the plots (Table 1). Fusion of quadrats In order to obtain samples of the same area over various scales adjacent quadrats have been fused. The fusion method chosen for this study responds to anisotropy in the same way over all hierarchical block sizes as the shape (of the plots) remains quadratic. The quadrats obtained this way form a new sample that represents the same sample area as if it would have been sampled with larger quad- rats. From now on every sample will be named ac- cording to the size of a plot window. The original sample will be referred to as sample of window size 1, the sample after the first fusion as sample of window size 2, and so on. Any fusion is done without overlap of quadrats and in a linear form (length of edges 1, 2, 3, 4, ... times the length of an original quadrat). As this method differs from that of Greig-Smith (1952) a comparison of the two methods is given in Fig. 1 and in the discussion. For every step of fusion as many quadrats are used to fit completely in the area of the original sample. The remaining space is cut off for each fusion size. This may lead to some edge effects, as the unused quadrats may carry other information than the fused ones (see also Podani 1987). A bor- der zone of quadrats, that are used only for fusion at "odd" sizes, would shift the problem from two edges towards all four sides of the sampling grid. It is recommended only in cases of similar trend along all directions. As only the presence of a species has been recorded in the original grid, only the presence of a species is conserved in this form of fusion as well. Therefore species, that cover the whole sample in a more or less homogeneous way, fill the whole sample after a few fusions and loose therefore any degree of information (this has been the case of Carex humilis ). Cross-classification of species The best known method for pairwise comparison of nominal data, in order to find out any sig- nificant association, is the analysis of contingency Figure 1. The first four steps of fusion according to Greig-Smith's method (top row) and the method used in this work (bottom row). The shaded quadrats are not considered for that particular window size.</page><page sequence="4">106 Hauser: Graphs and multigraphs tables. Generally speaking, categorical data can be summarized in a 2* contingency table, where k is the number of species. This sets a limit for the maximum number of species that can be analysed. Even for supercomputers and with enormous memory the upper limit that can be computed is reached at a k being somewhere around 40. To come around this one can use only some species combinations that are of interest due to previous analysis (Upton &amp; Figleton 1989, p. 53). In this work only pairwise comparisons have been made, thus k=2. Some notation is needed for fur- ther considerations (see also Figure 2): The num- ber of plots is N, m containing species 1, r containing species 2. In a plots both species 1 and 2 are present. The estimated chance of a quadrat containing species 1 is pì=m/N, the chance of a quadrat containing species 2 is p2=r/N. Pre- sumed that the locations of the species are inde- pendent of one another, the proportion of quad- rats that would be found to contain both species would be pip2, which is estimated by pip2. Since we are examining N quadrats, the expected num- ber of these N quadrats that would contain both species can be estimated by Npip2 = mr/N. Similarly, the other expected frequencies are ms/N, nr/N, and ns/N. We can use the Pearson goodness-of-fit test, for which the statistic X2 is defined as x2 = 2&lt;ob|-Exp.) (1) where Obs. are the corresponding observed fre- quencies, and Exp. are the expected frequencies. For a 2*2 contingency table, this formula sim- plifies to Species 2 Present Absent Total Present a b m Species 1 Absent c d n Total r s N Figure 2. A contingency table with k=2. 2 = N(ad-bc)2 mnrs Under the hypothesis of independence, the dis- tribution of X2 is closely approximated by the continuous xì distribution. That approximation can be improved by making a slight continuity correction to the formula for X according to Pirie &amp; Hamdan (1972): v2 _ (N-l) (ļad-bcļ -1/2)2 s _ mnrs ^ ' In order to distinguish this formula from the pre- vious one, the subscript s indicates the so-called sample case (and distinguishes it from the popula- tion case): The sample case must be chosen when the N quadrats refer only to a sampled part of the whole population and not to the whole population (see also Upton &amp; Fingleton 1985, p. 225). As the quadrats are contiguous, they will tend to be autocorrelated (mostly positively), as neigh- boring quadrats are often similar. This can be cor- rected by deflating X2 by division by (1+2D(D+1)), where D is a measure of the dis- tance over which it is believed that significant positive autocorrelation exist. The simplest way to calculate D is using the City Block Metric. There- fore, D = I xi- X2 1 + |yi-y2|, where the coor- dinates of the two points being considered are (xi,yi) and (X2, y2). For D=1 the proper divisor is 5, when we assume that autocorrelation extends only as far as neighboring points (Upton &amp; Fingleton 1985). The result of the calculation of Xf is finally com- pared with the upper 5% point of a#f distribution with 1 degree of freedom. If the calculated value exceeds the table value, the distributions of the 2 species are with at least 95% probability not in- dependent from each other. If the observed value for a is larger than the ex- pected value a = mr/N, then there is significant positive association between the two species. Otherwise, if the observed a is smaller than the expected £ there is significant negative associa- tion between them. Graphs and multigraphs The significant associations found above can be represented in a graphical way in the form of un- directed graphs (Dale 1977a, b).</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica ( 17) 1993 107 As the associations change with window size, it is possible to combine graphs from different fusion levels to multigraphs (Godehardt &amp; Herrmann 1988) in order to display the change of species as- sociations. For this sort of graph only the sub- graphs (Dale 1977b) of every window size, representing the positive associations, have been used. These five dimensions (t=5, as five window sizes have been investigated) form a so-called block that can be represented in form of a multi- graph Ts. It is now possible to draw s-projections of this multigraph for 1 &lt; s &lt; t, denoted Ts. For example, T2 is the projection of only those edges, that exist in at least 2 dimensions (= samples). The term cycle will be used in the next section, and needs therefore explanation: A cycle in an un- directed graph is a connection of at least 3 ver- tices and three edges if, starting at any of these vertices, a path can be followed along the other vertices and edges that ends at the start point agaiji. For example, if vertex A is connected with vertex B, B is connected with C, and C again is connected with A, they form a cycle (the smallest possible in an undirected graph). 3. Results Graphs The plexus graphs given in Figures 3 - 7 show the significant positive and negative associations be- tween all species, for the samples of all window sizes, respectively. The graphs show all associa- tions the Pearson goodness-of-fit test indicates as significant, regardless of the degree of autocor- relation. Whenever an association is significant even under the assumption of autocorrelation, this is pointed out separately in the text. Positive associations are given in the form of solid lines, negative associations as dashed lines. At window size 1 (Fig. 3) one big positively as- sociated group dominates. This group can be fur- ther divided into two distinct subgroups: The first one is made by Cerastium glutinosum, Hornungia petraea, Syntrichia ruralis and Tortella tortuosa , small ephemeral species and mosses. All these four species are positively associated with each other; only Syntrichia ruralis and Tortella tor- tuosa are not joined. The reason for this is that many individuals of Cerastium glutinosum and Hornungia petraea have been found inside of moss patches, but the mosses do not mix up with each other. Syntrichia ruralis and Tortella tortuosa grow very often near each other, but discrete borders separate them. Therefore both species occur not as often together in a plot as to show positive as- sociation. Though this separation is not as distinc- tive as to result in negative association. Echium vulgare and Jurinea mollis are loosely con- nected with Hornungia petraea , as this holds true only for values that are not deflated (no autocor- relation assumed). These species pairs have a high d-value in the contingency table. This inevitably leads to the conclusion that both species "attract" (Upton &amp; Fingleton 1985, p. 228) one another. Also, all edges between Cerastium glutinosum and Festuca carnuntina are significant only under the assumption of no apparent autocorrelation. The path along Fumana procumbens, Thymus praecox ' and Helianthemum canum leads us to the second subgroup that consists mainly of three conjoined species: Anthericum ramosum, Genista pilosa, and Festuca carnuntina form a cycle. The association between Festuca carnuntina and Seseli hippo- marathrum is a very strong one, even after defla- tion. Joined with Festuca carnuntina are Teucrium montanum, and - connected with Teucrium mon- tanum - Melica ciliata and Taraxacum laevigatum. What separates both subgroups further are the negative associations between them. The most distinct ones are between Genista pilosa on one side, and Cerastium glutinosum and Hornungia petraea on the other side. These edges are sig- nificant even after deflation, thus they indicate repulsion or avoidance. Other edges, showing negative association between Genista pilosa, Fes- tuca carnuntina, and Teucrium montanum on one side, and the ephemeral species and the mosses on the other side (plus Globularia elongata and Fu- mana procumbens), confirm that separation. Carex humilis and Sanguisorba minor are as nega- tively associated with both previously mentioned groups as they are with each other. As Carex humilis is a typical phalanx strategist (Lovett Doust 1981, Lovett Doust &amp; Lovett Doust 1982), that pushes other species away with its tight-pack- ed front of spacers, it is less often found together with other species. This results in that high in- and outdegree of negative associations, that is a greater number of edges of négative associations end at the vertex Carex humilis. Sanguisorba minor has been found mainly in the middle of the grid, and there predominantly alone. The strong posi- tive association between Festuca pallens and Helianthemum ovatum is due to their rareness (this species pair has a high d-value in the contin-</page><page sequence="6">108 Hauser: Graphs and multigraphs Figure 3. Species associations at window size 1. Figure 4. Species associations at window size 2. Figure 5. Species associations at window size 3. Figure 6. S neries associations at window size 4. Figure 7. Species associations at window size 5. gency table). The negative association between Festuca pollens and Genista pilosa , that can be found in all samples except that of window size 2, reflects the situation in the field insofar, as both species prefer distinct parts of the sample. In the sample of window size 2 (Fig. 4) the two subgroups remain, and their inner structure is confirmed now, as they are now more connected. Syntrichia ruralis and Tortello tortuosa are now positively associated, as now the plots (6 cm side length) include both species together more often than plots of window size 1. Genista pilosa remains to be the center of the other group. Now many cycles can be found in this group. With the exception of the cycles Genista pilosa - Festuca carnuntina - Melica ciliata and Ge- nista pilosa - Festuca carnuntina - Anthericum ra- mosum all other positive associations are due to</page><page sequence="7">Abstracta Botanica (17) 1993 109 high d -values. Melica ciliata and - to a lesser ex- tent - Anthericum ramosum are species that occur primarily in the upper part of the grid, as do Genista pilosa and Festuca carnuntina. The only significant negative associations under the as- sumption of spatial autocorrelation are between Genista pilosa on one side, and Cerastium glutinosum and Hornungia petraea on the other side. Because of the fusion Carex humilis fills the plane now almost entirely. Only few negative as- sociations remain between Carex humilis and other species. At window size 3 (Fig. 5) the only significant posi- tive association (under autocorrelation) remain- ing is that between Cerasttum glutinosum and Syntrichia ruralis. Still, both groups are apparent, as the negative associations between them show. Arabis recta and Taraxacum laevigatum , species that can be found close to each other in plots of window size 1, occur now together in many plots. This explains their positive association. The posi- tive association between Cerasttum glutinosum and Taraxacum laevigatum , that exists only at this and the previous window size, is owing to the preference of both species to occur predominantly in the bottom part of the grid. Nevertheless, at window size 1 and at window sizes 4 &amp; 5, there is no significant association between them. The al- liance of Helianthemum canum, Thymus praecpx, and Bupleurum falcatum that exists at this level and again in the samples of larger window size, is an effect of their rareness. Carex humilis has final- ly lost all its significance. It is present now in 94% of the sample. At window size 4 (Fig. 6) both groups, recognized from window size 1 on, exist. There is one sig- nificant negative association between Genista pilosa and Cerastium glutinosum after deflation. As Melica ciliata is a very rare species, it shows no significant negative association with Cerastium glutinosum and Hornungia petraea in the samples of small window size, although it has never been recorded with any of them. At size 4 it is no longer a rare event and becomes negatively as- sociated with Cerastium glutinosum and Hornun- gia petraea. At window size 5 (Fig. 7) Genista pilosa remains to be the center of one group (now a single- species group), Cerastium glutinosum - together with Hornungia petraea , Fumana procumbens, and Syntrichia ruralis - build the other group. As the side length of a plot is now IS cm, the remaining associations reflect primarily the wide scale preferences of the species. The mosses and an- nuals occupy the bottom of the grid, whereas Genista pilosa can be found only at the top. Summarizing the results of the different window sizes, the following community structure has been detected: • The mosses Syntrichia ruralis and Tortella tor- tuosa , the annual species Cerastium glutinosum and Hornungia petraea , and the dwarf shrub Fumana procumbens form the most scale in- variant group. They separate themselves clearly from all other species. • Genista pilosa is spatially connected with Fes- tuca carnuntina. Both species are common and are found mainly in the upper part of the grid, but sel- dom in the same plot. At window size 5, however, both are not associated. The positive association depends therefore more on large d-values in the corresponding contingency tables than on co-oc- currence. Genista is therefore the center of that group, separating itself, and all species connected loosely with it, from other species. • Carex humils , being the matrix species, suppres- ses all other species. As long as it does not cover the samples (almost) entirely, it is negatively as- sociated with both groups and other species as well. • Sanguisorba minor separates itself from both groups and from Carex humilis , at least in the samples of smaller window size. Therefore it can be assumed that this species has more competitive strength than other perennials, as Allium mon- tammo Anthericum ramosum , and Seseli hip- pomarathrum. Multigraphs 1*5 (Fig. 8) shows the positive associations that do exist in all five investigated samples, and that can be considered as most scale invariant. Two dis- tinct groups can be depicted: Helianthemum canum and Thymus praecox build the first one. As it has been mentioned before, this is due to their rarity. The second group consists of Cerastium glutinosum, Fumana procumbens, Hornungia petraea, and Syntrichia ruralis. Cerastium is the center of this group. In F4 (Fig. 9) a third group is detected, consisting of Genista pilosa and Festuca carnuntina. Both species occur primarily in the upper part of the grids. This preference is evident especially at win- dow sizes &gt;2. The tree structure of the second</page><page sequence="8">1 10 Hauser: Graphs and multigraphs Figure 8. Ts of the multigraph. Figure 9. H of the multigraph. Figure 10. ft of the multigraph. group changes and becomes a subgraph that con- tains a cycle, as an edge between Homungia petraea and Syntrichia ruralis gets spanned now. Still, Cerastium glutinosum remains to be the center vertex. In the figure showing ft (Fig. 10) the second group is further conjoined. New members of this group are Tortello tortuosa and Taraxacum Figure 11. ft of the multigraph . Figure 12. T i of the multigraph . laevigatum. The subgraph containing Cerastium glutinosum, Homungia petraea, Syntrichia mralis and Tortello tortuosa is maximally connected, that is, every species is connected with every member of that group. A new edge connects Fumana procumbens and Syntrichia ruralis. Taraxacum is linked to Cerastium glutinosum, another evidence that Cerastium glutinosum plays a center role in that group. The other two groups remain un- changed in their structure. T2 (Fig. 11) reveals a completely different situa- tion: All three groups are now connected with each other, but the extent of the "intergroup" con- nections of prior disconnected groups is different. The group containing the mosses and annuals is joined with the rest by only one edge ( Fumana procumbens to Thymus praecox), whereas there are now two connections between the foregoing first and third group. Also, the connections be- tween the previously disjointed groups have changed in various degrees: Except for the addi- tion of Arabis recta and Globularia elongata, the center of the group containing the mosses and an-</page><page sequence="9">Abstracta Botanica (17) 1993 111 nuals remains unchanged, as both species are added to the periphery. Helianthemum canum and Thymus praecox form a cycle with Bupleurum falcatum. The connections with the formerly called third group run along three edges, one between Bupleurum falcatum and Festuca carnuntina , the other from Helianthemum canum over Seseli hippomarathrum to Festuca car - nuntina . Bupleurum falcatum, Festuca carnuntina, Helianthemum canum, and Seseli hippomarathrum make up a cycle. Two other cycles can be found. One contains Festuca carnuntina, Seseli hip- pomarathrum , and Teucrium montanum , the other one Anthericum ramosum, Festuca carnuntina, and Genista pilosa. Furthermore, Asperula cynanchica is linked to Seseli hippomarathrum, and Allium montanum is connected with Genista pilosa. Hence the changes and extensions found in the former first and third group are more evident than those found at the other side of the graph. In Fi (Fig. 12) the formerly separated groups are now totally embedded into the graph, although the centers of the former second and third group remain on opposite ends, as there exists no single- edge connection between them. Carex humilis and Dorycnium herbaceum remain disconnected. They are never positively associated with any other species. 4. Discussion Fusion of quadrats Using Greig-Smith's method for fusing the original quadrats (Greig-Smith 1952) the window size increases in powers of 2 (length of edges 1, 2, 4, 8, ... {for the quadrat-shaped plots only}), and the areas are 1, 2, 4, 8, 16, 32, ... times the area of the original quadrat ( 21 ; i=0,l,2,...,n ). A per- manent switching between two different plot shapes (quadratic vs. rectangular) leads to dif- ferent geometrical relations between the centers of adjacent blocks (Goodall 1974, Pielou 1977, Upton &amp; Fingleton 1985). Furthermore, any anisotropy in the sample may bias quadrats in a different way than rectangles. There is a way to overcome this problem, as one may compute averages of the variance ratios of different runs over the same sample with different orientation of rectangles and different starting positions (Kwiat- kowska &amp; Symonides 1985, Upton &amp; Fingleton 1985, p. 36). Still the problem of different sen- sitivity for changing orientation remains (Goodall 1974). In this study any fusion is carried out in a linear form without overlap (length of edges 1, 2, 3, 4, ... times the length of an original quadrat). The quadrats cover therefore areas 1, 4, 9, 16, 25, ... times the area of an original quadrat ( i2 ; i=l,2,...,n ), they increase quadratic vs. using Greig-Smith's method the areas increase in powers of base 2. Up to the 7th fusion Greig-Smith's method gives smaller plots. For any further fusing step the method as used here gives smaller plots and thus the gaps between successing steps (of fusion) are smaller. Graphs In order to visualize community structures with graphs, the coenoses under consideration have to be small. Graphs of large and highly connected populations are cryptic. Yarranton (1973) reaches with the graphical representation of 91 species (Breidden Hill example) the upper limit that can be visualized clearly. Sizeable populations only can be analyzed in a statistical way (Dale 1977a, b; Yarranton 1973), or - if it is possible to calculate correlations, distan- ces, or similarities in different ways for the same set of objects - with multigraphs (Godehardt &amp; Herrmann 1988). The distinction between a graphical representation of natural groups and a figuration of artificial groups based on arbitrary connections can be done in the form of classifica- tion using Mahalanobis' generalized distances (van Groenewoud &amp; Ihm 1974). A statistical test of the number of isolated vertices and edges (Godehardt 1990) alone does not satis- fy the needs of applied ecology. Such a test reveals only a significant departure from a random situa- tion. We do not assume that populations are ran- domly connected so that tests for the degree of connectivity of (parts of) graphs are needed. The community structure Theoretically, associations between species should change in parallel with the hierarchy of scales. Starting with the smallest window size, at a scale that covers single individuals alone, negative associations between the species should be the result. This scale would simply cover the mor- phological or anatomical structure of the indi- viduals. A place occupied by an individual cannot be occupied by another, regardless of their taxo- nomie position. At a bigger scale, where one single plot covers more than one individual, one</page><page sequence="10">1 12 Hauser: Graphs and multigraphs would obtain either positive or negative associa- tions. Increasing the window size even further, so that more than a single conventional community (sensu Westhoff &amp; van der Maarel 1973) will be covered, results in mainly positive associations between members of one community, and nega- tive associations between exclusive members of the different communities covered. This theoretical approach has some flaws. a) The individuals are not of the same size and shape. Thus there exists no such thing as the smal- lest window size. The same holds true for the shape of the plots. b) The growth forms, together with the various abilities to explore resources, are different between species. Space is a vital resource (McConnaughay &amp; Bazzaz 1991). A site occupied by another individual becomes available • if the other individual vanishes, • if the intruder grows at another level than the habitant, e.g. a guerilla strategist may simply elon- gate its sprouts in between the shoots of the other species, or • if one species depends on another, e.g. an epiphyte may root alone on its supporting plant. c) Other ecological limits of growth, as nutrients and (micro)climate, are different for all members of a community. Ecological field theory (Walker et al. 1989) reflects this insofar, as the spatial in- fluences of plants are depicted as oscillating geo- metric zones. The underlying periodicity depends not only on size, growth-form (and taxonomie position), but also on the change of environmen- tal conditions over time. The underlying reasons for coexistence in the niche are manifold (Silver- town 1987). d) Erschbamer et al. (1983) showed clearly that the generic character and the conditions of the region of its origin of any species determine its distribution in the (micro)habitat as well. The results obtained from the "Hundsheim" data show that the associations between species are not simply hierarchic. Some coalitions can be found only at few sizes. Taraxacum laevigatum and Cerastium glutinosum are positively associated only at window sizes 2 &amp; 3. Samples obtained in this range of scales (6 - 9 cm plot size) probably reflect the overall variability of soil depth of the sample place. Other coalitions are almost scale in- dependent, e. g. the positive associations spanned between Syntrichia ruralis, Cerastium glutinosum , Fumana procumbens and Hornungia petraea. The overall distribution of the species in the grid and the structure of the rock skeleton in the sampling area support this (Hauser 1991a). Autocorrela- tion analysis and the analysis of planes (Hauser 1991a, b) approve the underlying trend, that in- fluences the community structure found at win- dow sizes 2 &amp; 3. At window size 5 only the poles of the underlying trend are delineated. Genista pilosa is mainly found at one end of the grid whereas the small annuals and mosses occupy the other end. The former area is characterized by overall deeper soil, the later area consists of patches of bare and shallow soils. This mosaic of patches is responsible for the missing positive as- sociation between Tortella and Syntrichia at win- dow size 1. Similarity, Grime (1979, p. 167) explained the co- existence of species found in pastures in Britain - areas similar to those in Hundsheim if one con- siders growth forms - with the heterogeneity of the habitat. He describes "four micro-habitats within areas of less than one square metre, each with a characteristic assemblage of herbaceous species": The first micro-habitat is characterized by ex- tremely shallow soil and colonized by winter an- nuals and mosses. The winter annuals can be considered as stress-tolerant ruderals. They com- plete their vegetative phase in late winter and early spring, as then the temperatures are less ex- treme. In the second micro-habitat the soils are slightly deeper, the effects of summer dissication are less severe. The tussock grasses are located here. Third, the narrow deep fissures in the limestone are exploited by sppcies with long, persistent tap roots. The fourth micro-habitat are the large pockets of soil. Here the more productive species can sur- vive. Such a classification of habitats is useful as a working concept, but species can explore by a varying degree other micro-habiats as well. Fes- tuca pallens is primarily located in the second type of micro-habitat (slightly deeper soils), whereas Festuca carnuntina can also explore the fourth (large pockets of soil). Similarly Helianthemum ovatum is found in deeper soils only, whereas Helianthemum canum has the ability to explore -</page><page sequence="11">Abstracta Botanica ( 17) 1993 1 13 at least partially - areas of shallow soils. Thymus praecox does this as well. Carex humilis is con- fined to the fourth type of habitat. Genista pilosa explores both the second and the fourth. The tap- rooted plants, as Seseli hippomarathrum and Bupleurum falcatum are limited to small fissures. Fumana procumbens grows in such fissures as well, but can explore even areas of shallow soil. Jurinea mollis and Echium vulgare also depend on such narrow cracks. Considering the tap rooting plants, only Sanguisorba minor has been common enough to separate itself from other species. The other fissure rooting species, as Bupleurum fal- catum and Seseli hippomarathrum, have been too rare to yield meaningful results. Two species dominate the community: Carex humilis is found mainly in areas of deeper soils. It builds dense rings of sprouts and pushes other species away. Genista pilosa is the most efficient guerilla strategist building long woody sprouts and explores the gaps. Both occupy probably an analogous position in the Hundsheim community as do the stress-tolerant competitors Festuca rub- ra and Dactylis glomerata in Grime's scenario. Acknowledgements. I would like to thank L. Mucina for his fruitful comments and his critical evaluation of the manuscript. This paper was supported by the Austrian Science Foundation (FWF), Projekt P9072-BIO. References Barkman, J. J. 1989. A critical evaluation of minimum area concepts. Vegetatio 85: 89-104. Bartha, S. 1990. Spatial processes in developing plant com- munities: Pattern formation detected using information theory. In: Krahulec, F., A D. Q. Agnew, S. Agnew &amp; H. J. Willems (eds.), Spatial processes in plant communities, Academia, Prague, pp. 31-47. Bouxin, G. 1990. The measurement of horizontal patterns in vegetation: a review and proposals for models. Coenoses 5: 97-112. Camiz, S. &amp; A Gergely 1990. An exploratory method for determing optimal plot size in plant community studies. Abstr. Bot. Hung. 14: 83-108. Dale, M. 1977a. Graph theoretical analysis of the phytosociological structure of plant communities: the theoretical basis. Vegetatio 34: 137-154. Dale, M. 1977b. Graph theoretical analysis of the phytosociological structure of plant communities: an ap- plication to mixed forest. Vegetatio 35: 35-46. Erschbamer, B., G. Grabherr &amp; H. Reisigl 1983. Spatial pat- tern in diy grassland communities of the Central Alps and its ecophysiological significance. Vegetatio 54: 143-151. Galiano, E. F. 1983. Detection of multi-species patterns in plant populations. Vegetatio 53: 129-138. Galiano, E. F. 1986. The use of conditional probability spectra in the detection of segregation between plant species. Oikos 46: 132- 138. Glenn-Lewin, D. C. &amp; J. M. Ver Hoef 1988. Scale, pattern analysis, and species diversity in grasslands. In: During, H. J., M. J. A Werger &amp; J. H. Willems (eds.), Diversity and pattern in plant communities, SPB Academic Publishing, The Hague, pp. 115-129. Godehardt, E. 1990. The Connectivity of Random Graphs of small order and Statistical Tèsting. In: Karonski, M. (ed.), Random Graphs 87 (Proceedings of the 3. International Seminar on Random Graphs. Poznan 1987), North-Hol- land, Amsterdam-New York-Oxford. Godehardt, E. &amp; H. Herrmann 1988. Multigraphs as a tool for numerical classification. In: Bock, H. H. (ed.), Classifica- tion and related methods of data analysis, Elsevier, Amsterdam, pp. 219-228. Goodall, D. W. 1974. A new method for the analysis of spatial pattern by random pairing of quadrats. Vegetatio 29: 135- 146. Greig-Smith, P. 1952. The use of random and contiguous quad- rats in the study of the structure of plant communities. Ann. Bot. 16: 293- 316. Greig-Smith, P. 1983. Quantitative Plant Ecology. 3. Ed., Blackwell Sci. Pubi., Oxford. Grime, J. P. 1979. Plant strategies and vegetation processes. John Wiley &amp; Sons, Chichester. Hauser, M. 1991a. Spatial aspects of community structure in a secondary diy grassland: A two dimensional approach. PhD Thesis, Univ. Vienna. Hauser, M. 1991b. Stepwise fusion of quadrats, semi- varioplanes, fractoplanes, and conditional probability- planes. In: Horváth, F. (ed.), Abstracts of the 34th LAVS Symposium on "Mechanisms in Vegetation Dynamics", Eger 26-30. Aug. 1991, Hung. Acad. Sci, pp. 74-75. Jackson, D. A, K. M. Somers &amp; H. H. Harvey 1989. Similarity Coefficients: Measures of Co-Occurence and Association or simply Measures of Occurence? Am. Nat. 133: 436-453. Janson, S. &amp; J. Vegelius 1981. Measures of ecological associa- tion. Oecologia (Beri.) 49: 371-376. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1992. Scaling problems almost everywhere; an introduction. Abstracta Botanica 16:1-5. Juhász-Nagy, P. &amp; J. Podáni 1983. Information theory methods for the study of spatial processes and succession. Vegetatio 51: 129-140. Kenkel, N. C., P. Juhász-Nagy &amp; J. Podani 1989. On sampling procedures in population and community ecology. Vegetatio 83: 195-204. Kwiatkowska, A J. &amp; E. Symonides 1985. Statistical analysis of the phytocoenose homogeneity. 5. Frequency distributions of similarity and distance coefficients as a function of the area size. Acta Soc. Bot. Polon. 54: 511-521. Legendre, P. &amp; M.-J. Fortin 1989. Spatial pattern and ecologi- cal analysis. Vegetatio 80: 107-138. Lovett Doust, L. 1981. Population dynamics and local specialization in a clonal perennial ( Ranunculus repens) 1.</page><page sequence="12">1 14 Hauser: Graphs and multigraphs The dynamics of ramets in contrasting habitats. J. Ecol. 69: 743-755. Lovett Doust, L. &amp; J. Lovett Doust 1982. War games in a green glade. The battle strategies of plants. New Scientist, 95: 1-4. McConnaughay, K. D. M. &amp; F. A Bazzaz 1991. Is physical space a soil resource? Ecology 72: 94-103. Mcintosh, R. P. 1973. Matrix and plexus techniques. In: Whit- taker, R. H. (ed.), Ordination and classification of com- munities, Junk, The Hague, pp. 159-191. Nikifeld, H. 1964. Zur xerothermen Vegetation im Osten Niederösterreichs (mit Berücksichtigung angrenzender Gebiete). Verh. Zool.-Bot. Ges. Wien 103/104: 152-181. Openshaw, S. &amp; P. J. Tàylor 1979. A million or so correlation coefficients: three experiments on the modifiable areal unit problem. In: Wrigley, N. (ed.), Statistical Applications in the Spatial Sciences, pp. 127-144. Pion, London. Pielou, E. C. 1977. Mathematical ecology. J. Wiley &amp; Sons, New York. Pirie, W. R. &amp; M. A Hamdan 1972. Some revised continuity corrections for discrete distributions. Biometrics, 28: 693- 701. Podani, J. 1987. Computerized sampling in vegetation studies. Coenoses 2: 9-18. Silvertown, J. W. 1987. Introduction to plant population ecol- ogy. 2. ed. Wiley, New York. Upton, G. &amp; B. Fingleton 1985. Spatial data analysis by ex- ample 1. Point pattern and quantitative data. Wiley, Chi- chester. Upton, G. &amp; B. Fingleton 1989. Spatial data analysis by ex- ample. 2. Categorical and directional data. Wiley, Chi- chester. van Groenewoud, H. &amp; P. Ihm 1974. A cluster analysis based on graph theory. Vegetatio 29: 115-120. Waitzbauer, W. 1990. Die Naturschutzgebiete der Hunds- heimer Berge in Niederösterreich. Abh. Zool.-Bot. Ges. Österr. 24. Wilker, J., P. J. H. Sharpe, L. K. Penridge &amp; H. Wu 1989. Ecological field theoiy: the concept and field tests. Vegetatio 83: 81-95. Watt, A S. 1947. Pattern and process in the plant community. J. Ecol. 35: 1-22. Westhoff, V. &amp; E. van der Maarel 1973. The Braun-Blanquet approach. In: Whittaker, R. H. (ed.), Ordination and clas- sification of communities, Junk, The Hague, pp. 617-726. Wendelberger, G. 1959. Die Waldsteppen des pannonischen Raumes. Veröff. Geobot. Inst. Rübel 35: 76-113. Yarranton, G. A 1973. A graph theoretical test of phyto- sociological homogeneity. Vegetatio 28: 283-298.</page></plain_text>