<plain_text><page sequence="1">41 containing a frigorific mixture in water: by this means he has fre- quently obtained a pellucid coating of ice on the outside of the vessels, of considerable thickness, and, by adapting the form of the vessel, of any figure that might be required. Account of a monstrous Lamb. In a Letter from Mr. Anthony Car- lisle to the Right Honourable Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read January 29, 1801. [Phil. Trans. 1801, p. 139.] The head of this animal, or rather foetus, for it was not born alive, was disproportionately small, and had no resemblance to the natural form except in the external ears, which were contiguous, and placed on the front part of the head. Between them was an opening, which proved to be the common passage to both the cesophagus and the trachea. All the organs which are usually found on the face were here wanting; there being neither eyes, nose, nor any of the appa- ratus belonging to the mouth: the cranium was formed into a hard bone, bearing a near resemblance to the head of a tortoise, and about the size of a plover's egg. On dissecting this singular production, it was found that the whole cerebrum and all its nerves were wanting. It is hence inferred that the formation and growth of animals in the uterus are independent of any influence from those parts of the brain which properly belong to sensation. The author regrets that this animal did not live to show the phwenomena of volition directed to its limbs and other parts, with- out that intelligence from the organs of the senses which regulate the actions of perfect animals. A careful observance of such circum- stances, he thinks, might lead to discoveries of the greatest import- ance in that part of physiology which is still enveloped in much ob- scurity. An Anatomical Description of a male Rhinoceros. By Mr. H. Leigh Thomas, Surgeon. Communicated by George Fordyce, M.D. F.R.S. Read January 29, 1801. [Phil. Trans. 1801, p. 145.] An opportunity having lately offered of examining a living rhino- ceros, and of dissecting it after death, Mr. Thomas availed himself of the favourable incident; and in this paper affords us all the in- formation he could gather concerning that curious animal. Dr. James Parsons having, upwards of fifty years ago, laid before the Society some account of the external parts of a rhinoceros, a re- capitulation is here given of what is contained in that paper; but on the other hand, the description of the internal parts, and of some of the organs, is the more ample, and, together with some observations on its habits, will probably prove equally satisfactory to the anatomist and the physiologist. Without entering into the technical part of this description, we shall only notice here certain peculiarities concerning the eye, in</page><page sequence="2">42 which a structure has been observed, of which no other animal is as yet known to partake. In cutting through the eye, four processes were met with, arising by distinct tendons from the internal or posterior portion of the scle- rotic, which, passing forward, gradually became broader, and insen- sibly lost themselves in and formed a part of the choroid. These processes had a muscular appearance. The ciliary processes were affixed to the crystalline lens, which was nearly spherical, with the anterior surface somewhat flattened. Concerning the use of this structure, especially of the processes, the author observes, that as the natural unwieldiness of this animal probably unfits it for quickly directing its sight to objects which for its own preservation it ought to be able to examine easily and mi- nutely, nature seems to have supplied it with an apparatus calculated to remedy this imperfection. The change in the eye, which adapts it for distinct vision at different distances, the author ascribes in a great measure to the four above-mentioned processes, which upon contracting will shorten the axis of the eye, and produce the desired effect: for near objects, it is observed that this animal has the eyes placed much nearer the mouth than any other, whence, without any adaptation of the eye, it is capable of performing the most essential of its functions, viz. that of examining the food necessary for its sub- sistence. Demonstration of a Theorem, by which such Portions of the Solidity of a Sphere are assigned as admit an algebraic Expression. By Robert Woodhouse, A.M. Fellow of Caius College, Cambridge. Communi- cated by Joseph Planta, Esq. Sec.R.S. Read February 12, 1801. [Phil. Trans. 1801, p. 153.] In the second volume of the Memoirs of the National Institute, M. Bossut announces a theorem relative to the solidity of a sphere similar to Viviani's, by which quadrable portions of a hemispherical vault are assigned. M. Bossut withholds the analysis that led him to his result, but mentions that it involves an integration much more complicated than that which occurs in Viviani's problem. In the present paper, Mr. Woodhouse furnishes the analysis that leads to the result announced in Bossut's theorem, and, by a transformation of the co-ordinates of the sphere, arrives at a differential expressioln, the integration of which does ilot appear more complicated than that employed in the solution of Viviani's problem. Account of the Discovery of Silver in Herland Copper Mine. By John Hawkins, Esq. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. K.B. P.R.S. Read February 12, 1801. [Phil. Trans. 1801, p. 159.] This ore was found in the Herland mine, about six miles from St. Michael's Mount in Cornwall. It consists chiefly of lodes of</page></plain_text>