<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 9: 67-77, 1985 THE STUDY OF CONVERGENT EVOLUTION IN PLANTS AND PLANT COMMUNITIES A QUANTITATIVE APPROACH* Duilio LAUSI and Pier Luigi NIMIS Department of Biology, University of Trieste Via Valerio 30, Trieste, Italy, 1-34100 This paper briefly describes the main methodological principles developed by the authors for a series of studies on convergence between plant communities of distant areas, within the framework of an international co-operative project between the universities of London (Canada) and Trieste (Italy). I. INTRODUCTION An international cooperative project is being carried out by the Department of Plant Sciences, University of Western Ontario (Canada, resp. Prof. L. Orlóci) and the Department of Biology, Trieste University (Italy, resp. Prof. D. Lausi). The research project is entitled "Convergent evolution of plant communities in distant areas". The basic idea of this research started from a well-known fact: taxonomically little related plants may evolve analogous morphological characters when growing under similar ecological conditions. This may also apply to entire plant communities of different floristic realms. The term * The study described in this paper is part of a broader co-operative research project co-directed by D. Lausi (Univer- sity of Trieste) and L. Orlòci University of Western Ontario). Partial funding was received on the grants to the directors respectively by the Italian C.N.R. and the Canadian N.S. E.R.C. This paper was presented at the international seminar "Community Pattern and Sampling" held at the Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, L. Eötvös University, Budapest, April 15-18, 1985.</page><page sequence="2">68 "Convergent Evolution11 has been often used to describe these facts; a historical view of this concept is in Johnson (1973). The phenomenon of convergence in plant communities has been known for a long time; in the physiognomic approach to the description of vegetation there are several examples (Humboldt 1807, Grisebach 1872, Drude 1890, Schimper 1903, Warming and Graebner 1918). A review that illustrates the pervasiveness of convergence in animals is provided by Allee et al. (1949). In more recent times, the Mediterranean climatic areas have attracted most attention in studies of vegetation convergence. Recent studies by Naveh (1967), Specht (1969a, 1969b), Mooney and Dunn (1970a, 1970b) and Mooney et al. (1970) compare structural and physiological features of the plant communities, of California and Israel, Australia and France, and California and Chile, respectively. Our project was set up with the idea that well-known facts may become a promising research field when studied on the basis of a new approach. In particular, the authors felt that morphology, ecology and evolution theory are so closely related from the theoretical point of view, that a quantitative approach in which the results of the three fields are evaluated jointly could be worth-while and promising. The approach that is being developed in connection with the project has two main parts. The first concerns the clear delimitation of the object, the sampling design, and the selection of characters to be studied. The second has to do with new methods to quantitatively measure structural convergence between plants or plant communities. This paper will discuss only the first set of problems. Its aim is the description of the basic philosophical and methodological principles underlying the "Convergent Evolution" project. II. THE CONCEPT OF FORM The basic starting point of the project is the comparison of "forms", either of plants or of entire plant communities. It is</page><page sequence="3">69 therefore important to have clear ideas on what we mean by "form". In the field of Botany, the word "form" underwent considerable semantic changes during the last century. For a traditional plant taxonomist, the form of a plant has much to do with what in other fields would be called a "Gestalt", i.e. a spatial system of characters that is perceived as a totality by an intuitive, visual act (see Heywood 1973). The comparison of Gestalten was and still is the main activity of traditional taxonomists working with herbarium sheets. The scanning microscope introduced the possibility of decomposing the "form" of a plant into different, not always immediately related levels: the form of a stoma does not have to be necessarily related with the form of a leaf, and in any case the two characters are not perceived at once. This renders the appreciation of Gestalten much more problematic. Furthermore, in recent times non-spatial characters have been increasingly used in the description of plants. A typical example is given by chemical characters (see Smith 1976). At this point intuition and sight risk failing. The tendency in numerical taxonomy is to get rid of both and to leave the definition of Gestalten to computer-based methods of multivariate analysis (Cullen 1968). Thus, the three-dimensional, visual space in which the primitive concept of Gestalt was embedded is being substituted by multidimensional spaces, and the intuition is being replaced by numerical algorithms. Such an approach to plant morphology has had important developments in plant taxonomy, while it has been almost completely neglected in plant ecology. In the latter field the morphological characters used for describing the structure of plant communities almost invariably are looked for in systems of categorizations, like growth forms, life forms, types of leaf forms, etc. (for a review, see Barkman 1979). In our approach, we decided that the morphological data to be selected should be analytic as much as possible, so that any a priori categorization will be avoided. The correlations between characters and the consequent definition of clusters of corre- lated characters defining a "form" should be left to the numerical analysis of the data sets. In other words, we decided</page><page sequence="4">70 to adopt an operational definition of form, that at the same time takes into account all of the characters present in the data set. The latter point implies the rejection of pre-defined form classes that are mostly based on one or a few characters. Different categorizations may be required for different objects (sets of species or of plant communities), and the choice between different categorizations should be based on the actual data structure under analysis. This is also a way to escape from the constraints imposed by the acceptance of systems of cat- egories whose value for the solution of a given problem cannot be satisfactorily evaluated Ma priori". III. CHARACTER SELECTION A plant has a potentially very large number of characters that can be recorded for quantitative morphological analysis. It is therefore essential to limit the number of characters to a reasonable number. The selection of "important" characters, however, should be one of the results of the analysis, and cannot be accomplished before it. In order to overcome this problem, we decided to limit the morphological analysis to those parts of the plant in which the flow of matter and energy with the external world is maximal, i.e. the photosynthetic structures. This choice is evidently linked to the fact that the project aims to relate morphological variation to the variation of ecological factors. The photosynthetic structures (leaves, green stems) are those that have the highest degree of variation, even within a single species or a single individual, in respect with the variation of ecological factors. In this, the choice of the characters basically differs from taxonomy, where a most important role is played by characters of the reproductive structures. The latter have more to do with flows of information than of matter and energy; they represent the seat of the "relation life" of an individual plant with other individuals, and therefore they are morphologically rather constant .</page><page sequence="5">71 The variability of photosynthetic structures, even within the same individual (e.g., sun leaves vs. shade leaves), brings us to another methodological choice. The characters to be recorded cannot be taken from the literature, and the plant material to be morphologically studied has to come from single stands, whose ecological conditions can be specified and quantified. This choice opens two possibilities: 1. the study of morphological variation within two populations of the same species in different stands; 2. the comparison of the overall structures of many plant stands, defined as the sum of the characters of their species. IV. SAMPLING The sampling design adopted on the basis of the previous considerations is as follows: Se.&lt;Le.ct¿on of ótand * The stands to be studied should correspond to recognizable vegetation types, to allow generalization of the results. As a rule, the stands are representative of a vegetation that has been the object of previous phytosociological studies. This also makes the choice of "typical" stands easier. Collection of plant material The photosynthetic structures (leaves, stems) of all species present in the stand are collected and air-dried. For each species, average height, cover and diameter are recorded. ft o a. pko logical analytic This is mostly based on scanning electron microscope photographs and thin sections of the photosynthetic structures. The following characters are recorded (this list refers to the characters recorded in the plants of the high elevation desert of Tenerife, see Lausi and Nimis 1985):</page><page sequence="6">72 1) Leaf area (mm2 ) 2) P/C index (Lausi and Nimis 1985). The ratio between the perimeter of the leaf (P), and the circumference of a circle that has the same area of the leaf (C). 3) Density of hairs on the axial and adaxial surfaces of the leaf. 4) Average length of hairs (in microns). 5) Pluri/unicellular hairs present (binary). 6) Thickness of cuticle (in microns). 7) Smooth/rugged cuticle (binary). 8) Thickness of leaf (in microns). 9) No. of stornata on axial and adaxial parts of the leaf. 10) Stornata in grooves (binary). 11) Stornata index (Salisbury 1927). 12) No. of epidermal cells on axial and adaxial surfaces of the leaf. 13) Shape of epidermal cells on axial and adaxial surfaces of the leaf. 14) Leaves single/in bundles (binary). 15) Evergreen/ deciduous (binary). 16) Inclination of leaves (degrees from vertical). 17) Maximum average height aboveground of photosynthetic structures. 18) Presence of convolute leaves (binary). Quantitative. an.aty.4L4 The species vs. characters matrix is analyzed by multivariate methods to study morphological variation within a single stand. Matrices of several stands are compared to measure convergence. New numerical methods have been developed for the measure of convergence. They will be presented in another paper (Orlóci et al. 1985) . Sampling has been designed in a way to reduce to a minimum the time spent in the field; the greatest share of time is spent in</page><page sequence="7">73 the laboratory for the morphological analysis. This is important for reducing field work costs, that are relatively high since the stands under study are located in distant parts of the world. V. STATE OF THE RESEARCH Stands of two areas have been selected for comparisons. These are: island of Tenerife (Canary Islands) and the southwest of the United States (Arizona and California). In the course of 1983 and 1984, stands in the following communities have been sampled: Tenerife: high altitude desert (Las Canadas) xerophytic 9Lnu-4 canaiLo-ntL* community mesophytic finu* canailentl* community EiLca albo/iza - My,/itca f.ay,a community Lauiu* a^o/iLca community (laurisilva formation) c upko/ibLa cana4¿en4¿4 community (succulents desert formation) U.S.A.: Saguaro desert (succulents desert formation) Umbzllulaila callf.o/inlca community (laurisilva formation) . The data from these stands permit the following comparisons: a) study of morphological variation along an elevation gradient from 2200 m to sea level in Tenerife, b) comparison between three desert communities and two laurisilva communities of distant areas. During 1985 a further desert community will be sampled in coastal Peru (S-America). The first results, relative to the analysis of the high altitude desert of Tenerife, are in Lausi and Nimis (1985). VI. THE MEASURE OF CONVERGENCE Convergence in character structures may be an attribute of species or of entire stands. The use of the term "convergence"</page><page sequence="8">74 implies that similarities in character structures arose as adaptations to similar ecological conditions, i.e. under the action of similar selective forces (see Sage 1979). Therefore, the term "convergence'1 should not be confused with the term "similarity". Similar combinations of characters may be present in two plants, groups of plants or plant communities, without being necessarily the result of similar selective pressures. On the other hand, a quantitative measure of morphological similarity between two units (species, stands), may have very different meanings in terms of convergence, and the interpretation ultimately depends on an estimate of ecological similarity between the units to be compared. A quantitative estimate of morphological similarity is therefore insufficient to measure convergence. Strictly speaking, the evaluation of convergence between two species should take into account their whole evolutionary histories. Such an approach is evidently not operational. Furthermore, examination and demonstration of current similarities is a post facto study, and while a positive conclusion may be logically sound, it cannot be considered a proven fact. Proof is impossible to obtain for the long-term evolutionary phenomena under discussion. We are left with comparative studies to provide tentative interpretations of the past historical sequence (Sage 1979). An operational definition of convergence, in any case, should take into account both morphological and ecological similarity between single species or entire communities. The degree of correlation between morphological and ecological variation within a given data set may be considered as a first, rough estimate of true convergence (or divergence). Furthermore, two species, or two plant communities, may present convergence in a given character set, while at same time they may diverge in other character sets. This implies that a quantitative evaluation of convergence should foresee the possibility of decomposing the total similarity between the units to be compared into several values, each referring to single characters or character sets (Orlóci et al. 1985). Such an approach also allows to better evaluate the adaptive value of single characters in respect with given</page><page sequence="9">75 environmental conditions. The degree of correlation between morphological variation and the variation of ecological parameters remains as the ultimate way to interpret morphological similarity as true convergence. A detailed ecological study of the stands to be compared is therefore indispensable. The ecological characterization of a stand is not a simple matter. Often, very rough ecological parameters are used for this purpose, or, in other cases, the stands to be compared are simply considered as ecologically "similar" without a quantitative specification of their degrees of similarity. This brought to a situation where, according tó Shmida (1981, 1983)," "the treatment of convergence has been too simple, and one should consider what converges and why, and what has not converged, and the reasons for that". One of the main results of the first study within our project, relative to the analysis of the high elevation desert of Tenerife (Lausi and Nimis 1985), was that ecological conditions within a single stand may be very different, and that plants respond to these differences by assuming different combinations of characters. This allowed us to distinguish groups of species with similar morphology occupying different niches within the stand. To test some hypotheses concerning niche differentation that were formulated from the analysis of purely morphological data, we felt the need to come back to the stand, in order to perform further ecological and eco- physiological measures. This means that extreme care has to be taken in the definition of ecological parameters for the single stands, and that, on the other side, the results of the morphological analysis may lead to the formulation of working hypotheses concerning ecology and ecophysiology , which have to be tested with data coming from further field work. Our approach is based on the quantitative analysis of forms, and on the correlation between forms and environmental factors (both defined in numerical terms); this approach could be called "ecomorphology" . We think that ecomorphological studies could be an interesting and little exploited field whose results might be</page><page sequence="10">76 of direct relevance to morphology, ecology and ecological plant physiology. REFERENCES Allee, W. C., A. E. Emerson, 0. Park and K. P. Schmidt. 1949. Principles of Animal Ecology. W. B. Saunders, Philadephia and London Barkman, J. 1979. The investigation of vegetation texture and structure. In: M. J. A. Werger (ed.): The Study of Vegetation, pp. 123-160. Junk, The Hague Cullen, J. 1968. Botanical Problems of Numerical Taxonomy. In: V. H. Heywood (ed.): Modern Methods in Plant Taxonomy. Aca- demic Press, London Drude, 0. 1890. Handbuch der Pflanzengeographie. J. Engelhorn Verlag, Leipzig Grisebach, A. H. R. 1872. Die Vegetation der Erde nach ihrer klimatischen Anordnung. W. Engelmann Verlag, Leipzig Heywood, V. H. 1973. Chemosystematics , an artificial discipline. In: G. Bendz and J. Santesson (eds): Chemistry in Botanical Classification. Academic Press, New York Humboldt, A. von. 1807. Essay sur la Geographie des plantes. Paris Johnson, A. W. 1979. Historical View of the Concept of Ecosystem Convergence. In: F. Di Castri and H. A. Mooney (eds): Medi- terranean Type Ecosystems. Springer Verlag Lausi, D. and P. L. Nimis. 1985. Morphological variation and ad- aptation in plant communities. I. The high-elevation desert of Tenerife (Canary Islands), (in press) Mooney, H. A. and E. L. Dunn. 1970a. Photosynthetic systems of mediterranean-climate shrubs and trees of California and Chile. Amer. Nat. 104:447-453 Mooney, H. A. and E. L. Dunn. 1970b. Convergent evolution in mediterranean-climate evergreen sclerophyll shrubs. Evolution 24:292-303 Mooney, H. A., E. L. Dunn, F. Shropshire and L. Song. 1970. Vegetation comparisons between the mediterranean climatic areas of California and Chile. Flora 159:480-496 Naveh, Z. 1967. Mediterranean ecosystems and vegetation types in California and Israel. Ecology 48:445-459 Orlôci, L., E. Feoli, D. Lausi and P. L. Nimis. 1985. Estimation of character structure convergence (divergence) in plant communities: a nested hierarchical model, (in press)</page><page sequence="11">77 Sage, R. D. 1979. Ecological convergence of the lizard faunas of the chaparral communities of Chile and California. In: F. Di Castri and H. A. Mooney (eds): Mediterranean Type Ecosystems. Springer Verlag Salisbury, E. J. 1927. On the causes and ecological significance of stomatal frequency, with special reference to the wood- land flora. Phil. Trans, r. Soc. London, Ser. B, 216:1-65 Schimper, A. F. 1903. Plant Geography upon a Physiological Basia Clarendon Press, Oxford Shmida, A. 1981. Comparison between the mediterranean vegetation of Israel and California. Isr. J. Bot. 30:105-123 Shmida, A. 1983. Biogeography of the desert floras of the world In: M. Even-Ari and I. Noy-Meir (eds): Hot Deserts. Ecosystems of the World. Vol 12. Elsevier, Amsterdam Smith, P. M. 1976. The Chemotaxonomy of Plants. Arnold, London Specht, R. L. 1969a. A comparison of the sclerophyllous vegetation characteristic of mediterranean type climates in France, California and Southern Australia. I. Structure, morphology, and succession. Aust. J. Bot. 17:277-292 Specht, R. L. 1969b. A comparison of the sclerophyllous vegetation characteristic of mediterranean type climates in France, California and Southern Australia. II. Dry matter and nutrient accumulation. Aust. J. Bot. 17:293-308 Warming, E. and P. Graebner. 1918. Eug. Warming's Lehrbuch der oekologischen Pflanzengeographie. Borntraeger, Berlin (Received May 25, 1985)</page></plain_text>