<plain_text><page sequence="1">271 Much, however, in Mr. Pepys's estimation, remained to be done in the mechanical part of the apparatus, and in the course of various experiments on these subjects, that it might be rendered more com- modious in its application, and capable of giving correct results with the utmost minuteness. The instruments which he proposes consist of two tubes, one larger and one smaller, with a bottle of elastic gum to each, and a glass cy- linder, or cistern, of the same length as the tubes. The larger of the tubes, containing one cubic inch, is the principal measure, and is di- vided into hundredths; the smaller is intended to measure fractional parts; and in this each of the former divisions is divided into ten parts, or thousandths of the cubic inch. One of the bottles of elastic gum has attached to it a tube, which serves as a perforated stopper to the larger measure, through which any liquid to be applied to the gas under examination may be for- cibly injected. When the full contraction has taken place, the mea- sure is immersed in the cistern, filled with mercury or with water, according to circumstances, and the contraction noted. But if the surface is found not to correspond with a division of the principal measure, the smaller tube, which slides through a cork in the bottom of the cistern, is to be passed up till its extremity (which is open) reaches the gas contained, and the fractional part is then withdrawn by means of its elastic bottle, and measured with the greatest pre- cision. Mr. Pepys next proceeds to an account of various gases, of which he tried the purity by meeans of this apparatus, as nitrous gas, con- taining -rT- of impurity, oxygen gas r-,; atmospheric air, of which ^Ty were absorbed; carbonic gas, which left .-1+,and sulphuretted hydrogen r,W of impurity. In the analysis of compound gases also, he imagines it will be found peculiarly useful. He recommends using the solutions hot, which facilitates chemical union, but prevents the absorption of carbonic and other gases by the mere water of solution, which might other- wise take place. In order to avoid the expansion that would be occasioned by handling the measure, Mr. Pepys employs a pair of forceps, having circular extremities lined with cloth, for grasping the tube. The elastic gum, he observes, is so little acted upon by chemical agents, that a great variety of them may be employed, and may with facility be used at any temperature. Observations on the Nature of the new celestial Body discovered by Dr. Olbers, and of the Comet which was expected to appear last January in its return from the Sun. By William Herschel, LL.D. F.R.S. Read June 4, 1807. [Phil. Trans. 1807, p. 260.] It was on the 24th of April that Dr. Herschel first saw the new planet Vesta; but though he saw her again on the 25th, he could not determine which of several stars he noted was the planet, for</page><page sequence="2">272 want of sufficient motion at that time. He examined her at that time with a power of 460, but could not distinguish anything in her ap- pearance different from surrounding stars of equal brightness. On the 21st of May, when he had learned her position more pre- cisely from the Astronomer Royal, he observed her again with the same power, but could discern no appearance of a planetary disc. On the 22nd he perceived her to have moved since the preceding evening, and now examined her with increased powers of 460, 577, and 636, but could find no difference between the planet and a fixed star, the 463rd of Bode's Catalogue. Since Vesta thus bears to be examined by high magnifying powers without apparent enlargement of her disc, which is the test by which Dr. Herschel formerly determined the apparent discs of Ceres, Pal- las, and Juno, to be spurious, he considers her as belonging to that formerly unknown species of celestial bodies which he has termed asteroids. May 24th.-Dr. Herschel compared Vesta with the Gregorian planet, and found that with a power of 577 her apparent disc was about one ninth or one tenth as large; and with his 20-feet reflector, of 18- inches aperture, she had no surrounding atmosphere or nebu- losity. Dr. Herschel's observations on the comet, which follow, were con- fined to three days, January 27, January 31, and February 1. It was near the electrometer of the constellation, called by Bode llachina electrica. Its coma was of an irregular round form, extending six or seven minutes in diameter. Upon revising his observations of sixteen telescopic comets, Dr. Herschel remarks, that fourteen have been without any visible solid body in their centre, and that the other two had but an ill-defined small central light, which did not deserve the name of a disc. On the Quantity of Carbon in carbonic Acid, and on the Nature of the Diamond. By William Allen, Esq. F.L.S. and William Hasledine Pepys, Esq. Communicated by Humphry Davy, Esq. Sec. R.S. M.R.I.A. Read June 18, 1807. [Phil. Trans. 1807, p. 267.] The experiments, which form the subject of the present communi- cation were undertaken, not only on account of the difference between the estimates that have been made of the quantity of carbon in car- bonic acid, but because those of Guyton de Morveau, which are most frequently preferred at this time in various systems of chemistry, appeared liable to many objections, from the manner in which they were conducted; while the original experiments of Lavoisier, on the contrary, appear to have been performed with much accuracy, and had moreover been confirmed by Mr. Tennant in his researches on the nature of the diamond. The design of the authors was to consume certain known quanti- ties of diamnond and of other carbonaceous substances in oxygen gas; for which purpose it had been originally their intention to employ</page></plain_text>