<plain_text><page sequence="1">Sterilization of Endoscopic Equipment The microbiological aspects of endoscopy are important to consider in avian practice. Proper sterilization of the equipment protects the surgeon as well as the patient from exposure to potentially infectious agents. The choice of a sterilization method is determined by the effectiveness vs. potential damage to the endoscope. The least damaging and most effective way to sterilize endoscopes is with ethylene oxide, although there is still considerable controversy about the use of this agent in a practice situation. Since autoclaving results in damage to the equipment, the use of chemical agents is the second best choice. The most common chemicals used for sterilization of endoscopic equipment are 2% aqueous solutions of gluteraldehyde, either acid-based or alkaline-based. It appears that alkaline-based disinfectants are relatively destructive to instruments. Some endoscope manufacturers are now recommending that acid-based sterilization agents such as Sporicidin be used. Most of the important avian bacterial and viral agents are destroyed when instruments free of debris are placed in a clean solution of gluteraldehyde for 10 minutes. The instruments should be rinsed with sterile distilled water and dried with sterile gauze before use. We use two polypropylene trays with splash-proof rims (Nalgene, Allied Fisher Scientific), one for gluteraldehyde and one for the water. The trays are relatively inexpensive, can be autoclaved and are impervious to almost all chemicals. If a practitioner is performing multiple procedures, it is particularly important to sterilize the endoscope between patients. I was recently informed of a reovirus outbreak in six different aviaries in Europe (with significant morbidity and mortality) that was ultimately traced to the transfer of the virus via endoscopic equipment from one aviary to another. - George V. Kollias, D VM, PhD, University of Florida, Gainesville, Florida</page></plain_text>