<plain_text><page sequence="1">The reading ofa paper, entitled, "On the Generation of the Mar- supial Animals 3 with a Description of the impregnated Uterus of the</page><page sequence="2">279 Kangaroo." By Richard Owen, Esq., Member and Assistant Conser- vator of the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons, London. Communicated by Sir Anthony Carlisle, F.R.S.?was commenced. May J, 1834. BENJAMIN COLL1NS BRODIE,Esq.,Vice-President,in the Chair. Mr. Owen's paper was resumed, and concluded. The author gives a history of the opinions which have been ad? vanced relative to the generative organs and functions of the Marsu- piata, an extensive order of quadrupeds, including animals nourished by every variety of food, and exercising very different powers of progression, yet exhibiting a remarkable uniformity in their mode of reproduction. In all the genera included in this family, the uterus is double; in most of them the vagina is also double; and there is always a single cloacal outlet for the excrementitious substances, and the products of generation. There is a corresponding uniformity in the male organs, which are bifurcnted at the extremity, and have a double groove for the transmission of the semen ; and the male has not only marsupial bones, similar to those of the female, but also a muscle, similar to that which surrounds and compresses the mammary gland in the female, winding round these bones like pulleys, and act- ing as cremasters for the retraction and compression of the testes. A minute description is then given of the results of the dissection of the impregnated uterus of a kangaroo, which was obtained by Mr. George Bennett, during a short residence in New South Wales, and which, together with the impregnated uteri of the Ornithorhynchus and other valuable specimens, were sent to the Museum of the Royal College of Surgeons. The membrane corresponding to the chorion, or external envelope of the fcetus, was found not to have a vascular struc? ture, and not to adhere in any part to the surface of the uterus; neither was there any appearance of a placental or of a villous struc? ture. It adhered internally to a vascular membrane, into which the umbilical stem ofthe fcetus suddenly expanded, and which terminated in a well-defined ridge, formed by the trunk ofa terminal blood-vessel. The three omphalo-mesenteric, or vitulline vessels, were traced, from the umbilical cord into the abdomen, where they terminated in the usual manner; namely, the veins in the vena portse, and the artery in the aorta. Hence it was apparent that the membrane on which they ramified, corresponded to the vascular layer of the germinal mem? brane, which, in oviparous animals, spreads over the yelk, or to the umbilical vessel of the embryos of ordinary mammalia. The ventri- cles of the heart were completely joined together, and bore the same proportions to each other as in the adult; a perfection of structure which is not observed in the embryos of ordinary mammalia at a cor? responding period of developement. The lungs were equal in size to the heart, and were of a spongy texture, and full of red blood; their precocious developement, compared with that of the abdominal or di-</page><page sequence="3">280 gestive organs, being evidently a provision for their early or prema- ture exercise. From the close resemblance in the structures ofthe ovary and Fal? lopian tubes of the kanguroo with those of ordinary mammalia, and from the circumstance of the young being nourished, after birth, by a secretion from mammary glands, the author concludes that the ovu- lum in the former animal quits the ovisac in a condition correspond? ing to that in the latter class, and increases in a similar manner as it descends to the uterus. But as there is no formation ofa placenta, it remains to be determined how the aeration of the fcetal blood is effected: this, however, probably takes place through the chorion, although this membrane is not vascular, to an extent sufficient for the purposes of the vital functions of a fcetus so imperfect, and whose uterine existence is of such short duration, as they are in this animal. Reasons are given, which render it probable that in the Marsupiata an allantois and umbilical arteries are developed at a later period of gestation, corresponding in this respect to the fcetal condition of the Batrachian reptiles, and corroborating the views entertained by the author, that the former family are essentially ovo-viviparous. The author next proceeds to investigate the structure and condition of the mammary fcetus in the Marsupiata, or that stage of its exist? ence when it is retained in the marsupial pouch, and derives its suste- nance from the imbibition of milk from the mammary glands. He reiates the observations which he has lately made on the fcetus ofa kanguroo in the Menagerie ofthe Zoological Society. He ascertained that the period of uterine gestation in the animal is thirty-nine days, and examined the foetus a few hours after it had fixed itself to the nipple in the abdominal pouch, and when it was not much above an inch in length, and resembled an earth-worm, both in the colour and the semi-transparency of its integument. Four days afterwards, he detached it from the nipple, and observed that although it moved its limbs freely, it was unable to regain its former situation. The pa? rent endeavoured to replace it by introducing its head into the pouch, which it held open with its fore paws ; but these efforts were in- effectual, and the next day the fcetus had disappeared, having, pro? bably, been destroyed by the mother. The last section of the paper is occupied by an inquiry into the structure and analogies of the female generative organs of the Mar? supiata. These are traced throughout the successive orders of mam? malia, to their connexions with various tribes of birds and reptiles, and is concluded by a disquisition on the final purposes of marsupial generation, and its relations to the other modes by which the con? tinuance of the race is accomplished, in the more elevated orders of animals, and which appear to have reference to the greater expansion and perfection ofthe brain, and the greater developement of the in? tellect ual faculties.</page></plain_text>