<plain_text><page sequence="1">Avian Conservation New: by Robert Groskin, D VM The AAV was represented at the most recent meeting of the U.S. and Pan Am Sections of the Inter- national Council for the Preservation of Birds (ICPB) in Washington, D.C. Among the subjects discussed was importation legislation. Both Sections are in support of bills limiting importation. It was felt that Federal legislation would be the most likely way to achieve success in this area. Along the same lines, Trade Records Analysis of Flora and Fauna in Commerce (TRAFFIC) and the IUCN/SSC Trade Specialist Group announced a blue ribbon- type panel they will convene to include all participants in bird trade, conservationists, industry, aviculturists, veterinarians, and other interested parties to discuss this issue in depth. The tentative date is in April, 1987. (Since this meeting, Trade has informed me that there will probably be hearings in the House of Representatives on this issue in the Spring of 1987). Also reported at the IFCB meetings were reports of large numbers of flamingo deaths in Bolivia, a new U.S.-China Protocol on Conservation of Nature, concern that changes in personnel will hinder the Puerto Rican Parrot population, and grant proposals for studies of various conservation projects and publications. S... The dramatic decline in the Black Duck population has become a major concern for conservationists. In the past 30 years, the population has declined by 60%. Undoubtedly the causes are multifactorial, including increased competition from other ducks (especially Mallards), overhunting, habitat destruction by human encroach- ment, lead-shot pellet ingestion, pesticides, and other environmental contaminants. New studies are, however, pointing toward acid rain as a factor affecting the ducks during their critical breeding and fledging cycle. Highly acid lakes and streams result in a decreased abundance in the diversity of food species for breeding and young Black Ducks. Insects, weeds, seeds and algae are the ducks' basic diet. Even mildly acidic lakes have been shown to cause a 60% slower growth rate in young Black Ducks, and mortality rates for ducklings are 3 times greater in acidic wet lands than non- acidic wet lands. Initially, the issue of acid rain seemed to be of concern only to fishermen who noticed a decrease in the fish population in the lakes of the Adirondaks. Then other New Englanders noticed that trees on the western slopes were dying. Now dramatic declines in a major water- fowl species are attributed in some part to acid rain. As with all major environmental problems, one way or another, all species on earth will ultimately be affected. Hopefully we can effect a change before the losses are irreversible. 000@ Ornithologists have recognized slight variations in song or dialects between local groups of similar bird species but have debated its significance. One theory holds that the dialects help to keep the local group together and thereby preserve the behavioral patterns and capacity to survive in that locale. A new study of cowbirds, a species that lays their eggs in the nests of other species, showed that the females responded more frequently to the local dialect than to males with a foreign accent. Rather than take time to learn a new dialect, the female is assured that the local male is mature and has been around long enough to demonstrate an ability to defend its local territory, i.e., is biologically fit. 0SO@ Ornithologists and wildlife biologists frequently do not know where to turn for diagnostic assistance in the event of an avian die-off. Persons interested in making themselves available during a signifi- cant avian event where services of avian pathologists or avian veterinarians are desired are invited to contact Robert Groskin, DVM, 43 No. Dean Street, Englewood, NJ 07631. 78 AAV TODAY</page><page sequence="2">by Susan Wells The U.S. Forest Service has decided not to allow commercial logging in the Caribbean National Forest. Located in Puerto Rico, this is the only tropical rain forest in our National Forest System. It is also the home of the Puerto Rican Parrot which is critically endangered with only 29 birds remaining in the wild. *000 A new parrot species has been discovered in the Andes Mountains of Ecuador. It is a colorful green parakeet with a maroon tail, red and blue wings, and a red forecrown. The range of this bird is very small - probably only a hundred square miles. Robert Ridgely, the ornithologist who discovered the bird, is encouraging the Ecuador government to preserve the area which is currently being cleared for livestock grazing. Many avian veterinarians have found that clients who own pet birds often have an interest in wild birds as well. Two organizations concerned with wild birds are The National Audubon Society and the Laboratory of Ornithology. Both publish colorful and informative magazines which are a great addition to the reception area of any avian practice. Membership in organizations such as these helps conservation efforts and demonstrates a concern for the welfare of all birds. The National Audubon Society is one of the nation's oldest and largest conservation organizations. Through its 75 sanctuaries, 10 regional offices, research centers, publications, ecology center, camps and the activities of more than 440 chapters, the Society provides information and encourages action necessary to help solve problems facing the environment today. Membership dues are $30/year which includes a subscription to Audubon magazine and concurrent membership in your local chapter. For more information write or call: National Audubon Society, 450 Third Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10022, 212-857-7000. *000 The Laboratory of Ornithology gathers information about bird populations utilizing the skills of both amateur and professional ornithologists. It is also a center for the study and cultural appreciation of birds. Membership of $25/year includes a subscription to The Living Bird Quarterly. Laboratory of Ornithology, Cornell University, 159 Sapsucker Woods Rd., Ithaca, N.Y. 14850. Input from AAV Members Requested Gloria Goodman has been in communication with Winthrop Laboratories about the possibility of their offering for purchase small glass bottles containing 60 cc of Roccal-D (enough to make 6 gallons.) Dr. Goodman frequently dispenses 10 cc in a syringe for clients to dilute at home; this is time-consuming and the hospital label information is minimal. Winthrop already has very limited quantities of the 60 cc size (with a complete label) as samples. They would be willing to consider this size for packaging as a sales item only if there is sufficient market interest. If you favor such a move, please respond below. Return to: Gloria Goodman, VMD, Flowers Mill Veterinary Hospital, 10 S. Flowers Mill Road, Langhorne, PA 19047 Yes, I would be interested in buying Roccal-D in 60 cc sized containers for dispensing to my clients. I would anticipate using units (60 cc each) in a year's time. Comments Signature</page></plain_text>