<plain_text><page sequence="1">Hospital Management IME 608 . . HOUSING OF HOSPITALIZED BIRDS (or BIRDSIDE MANOR) (AFA) In my practice I utilize 3 sizes of aquariums to house most hospital ized birds: 5 gallon size (for cana ries, finches, love birds, budgies, etc.); 10 gallon size (for cocka tiels, Grey-cheeks, small conures and similar size birds); and 2 C gallon size (for Amazon parrots, small to medium sized Sulfur-crested Cocka toos) . The advantages of using aquar i urns include: 1. Seeds, feathers, droppings, etc. are contained within the aquar ium rather than falling through cage bars. Therefore it is easier to keep your hospital neat and tidy and less chance of disease spread between hospitalized patients. 2. Easy to clean ard disinfect. 2. Easy to warm up with overhead 250 ^a11 infrared heat lamps or hea ting pads under the aquariums. Easy access arG clear visi bility of the patient. 5. Easy to label - merely write on tne glass with black waterproof IME 609 . . AVIAN PRACTICE TIPS (AFA) The nastiest, most obnoxious, screaming, biting, clawing, flapping avian patient can and should be hand led in the same gentle manner as the hand fed baby. It ca'ls for skill and co-ordination, not strength or force. Restraint tubes may be useful for weighing difficult macaws with long tails. The tubes can be made of plastic (e.g. 30/1000" thick polycar bonate plastic) rolled ,;nto the shape of a tube and held dy tape. The diameter should be snug to the bird's body; otherwise, too much motion occurs within the tube. To help celebrate 'beak grind to animals week" I find a diamona dental grinding wheel on the Dremel hobby tool is smoother and cces a better job grinding beaks than the coarser grinding wheels four.c in hardware stores. For wing trims I cut each fea ther quill individually with suture scissors just below the level of the covert feathers. On Amazon parrots markers such as Sharpie brand mar kers. We label with client's name, pet's name and any important informa tion such as "I fly", "Macawtion!" , etc. The labels are easily removed with paper towel and undiluted iso propyl alcohol. 6. Screen tops can be purchased tc fit over the tops of the aquarium. Perches consistof plastic PVC pioe (from hardware stores) as the perch bar, with 2 rectangular end plates of plexiglass to support it. Tne bar is sanded to aid in gripping and the end plates are smoothed prior to glueing. Each perch can take over an hour of time to make, but it will last for years. I use 3 sizes of plastic pipe diameter: 1) 7/8" for finches, Ducgies, cockatiels, etc.; 2* 1-1/4" for small and large Amazons and cockatoos; 3) 1-7/8" for large macaws. The length must be able tc easily fit inside the width of the acuarium. My small perches are 7" long and the other 2 sizes are 10" long. -- Chuck Galvin, OVM Novato, CA ar:c larger birds usually I cut all tne flight feathers excep't 2 on the era and 2 colored ones in the middle. 7ms is done tc both wings. A special band remover is used fcr cutting aluminum bands. These are made by a number of manufactur ers. Most that I have seen ever the years were poor quality and weren't worth purchasing. The one that I am presently u s i r-: does a very good j o d arc was reasonably priced (abcut S".50). It was purchased from: L and Bird Leg Band Removers, P.O.Box 2?43, San Bernardino, CA 92406. TM Dust Busters by Black and Decker are useful to have in various areas of the Hospital for quick va cjuming of leathers, seed, etc. An appropriate No Smoking sign fc- avian practice would be "No Puffin!" -- Chuck Galvin, DVM Novato, CA 85</page><page sequence="2">IME 610 . . IDENTIFICATION OF PARROTS (Germany) 'Translated by Mary McKitrick) The identity of a parrot needs to be established when there is doubt as to its ownership or origin. The methods of recognition usually used in ornithological studies (e.g. ban ding, wing markings, tatooing, etc.) are not suitable, .since alterations are easily possible. Based on an 18 month study, chiefly of Ara- macao (Scarlet Macaw), Ara chloroptera (Green-winged Macawl and Pst ttacuT eri thacus (Grey Parrot), alternative methods for identification of parrots are offered: A. Pedigram (a "map" of the horny covering of the foot and toes) B. Craniogram ("map" of certain contours of the beak and face). This involves photographing the head of the bird at various angles and enlar ging the photos. Care must be taken that photographic lights do not create shadows that obscure the diag nostic markings.) C. Abnormalities (deformities, scars, and other markings) As many individual markings as possible should be used, in the event of manipulations (e.g. amputations) altering the diagnostic marks. The preparation of pedigrams and craniograms is recommended to every owner of a valuable bird; in con junction with an import permit this could eliminate the official identi fication band. IDENTIFYING ASPECTS OF PEDIGRAMS: Unique scale patterns Number, size and shape of the larger scutes Position and number of the smal ler scutes Width and direction of the lines of division (between scutes) IDENTIFYING ASPECTS OF CRANIOGRAMS: Schematic of the pigmentation o* the ramphotheca (horny sheath o* bill), nasal skin and/or facia'' discs. Position of the unfeathered fa cial plates with position of eyes Direction and position of fea ther tracts in facial plates Pigmentation on the base of the upper marc'Ole Unpi:~erted ramphotheca on uppe mandible. fm von N. Kummerr~el d Avian Clinic Hannover, WEST GERMANY So</page></plain_text>