<plain_text><page sequence="1">629 iilto combination with the respired oxygen, forming carbonic acid and water, do not generate sufficient heat for the purposes of animal life; and that :consequently there must be some other sources of heat in the animal economy, one of which he believes to be the secretion of carbon. "Electro-Physiological Researches.-Fourth Memoir. On the Physiological Action of the Electric Current." By Charles Mat-: teucci. Communicated by Michael Faraday, Esq., LL.D., F.R.S. In the prosecution of his inquiries on the physiological action of electric currents, the author found it necessary to employ an appa- ratus, which was expressly made for him by M. Breguet, adapted to the delicate appreciation of the intensity of the force of the mus- cular contractions excited by those currents; of which apparatus he gives a minute description, illustrated by a drawing. He was thus enabled to institute an exact comparison between the contrac- tions caused by the direct, and those by the reverse currents, both at the commencement and at the termination of their action.. The following are the general conclusions he deduces from the experi- ments thus conducted. 1. The passage of the electric current through a mixed nerve pro- duces a variation in the excitability of the nerve, differing essen- tially in degree, according to the direction of the current through the nerve. This excitability is weakened and ultimately destroyed; and this takes place more or less rapidly according as the direct current, that is, a current circulating through the nerve from the centre to the periphery, is more or less intense. On the other hand, by the passage of the same current in the contrary direction, that is, from the periphery to the centre, or the inverse current, the ex- citability is preserved and increased. 2. The variations in the excitability of the nerve produced by the passage of the current, tend to disappear more or less rapidly on the current ceasing. If the nerve be taken from a living animal, or from one in which life is but just extinct, so that its excitability is very great, these variations last only as long as the current con- tinues to circulate; while, if the nerve has already lost some of its excitability, they survive the cessation of the current by a period of from one to ten or fifteen seconds. 3. If the same current be made to act upon a mixed nerve, the contraction which occurs on the first moment of its introduction is very different according to its direction; the direct current always occasioning a stronger contraction than that produced by thre in- verse current. " On Phlogiston and the Decomposition of Water." By W. F. Stevenson, Esq., F.R.S. The author is of opinion that the evidence on which the modern theory of the composition of water is founded, is fallacious; and believing water to be a simple body, he conceives that it forms hydrogen by combining with the electric fluid, which he imagines</page></plain_text>