<plain_text><page sequence="1">62 June 16. JOHN W. LUBBOCK, Esq., V.P. and Treasurer, succeeded by HIS ROYAL HIGHNESS THE DUKE OF SUSSEX, K.G., President, in the Chair. Griffith Davis, Esq. was elected a Fellow ofthe Society. The following Presents were received, and thanks ordered for them :? Trigonometrical Survey of Great Britain and Ireland?Sheets 41 and 54 (Parts of Carmarthenshire, Worcestershire, and Warwick- shire). 5 Maps.?Presented by the Hon. Board qf Ordnance. Proceedings of the Geological Society. No. 21. 8vo.? The Society. A Treatise on Algebra. By the Rev. George Peacock, M.A., F.R.S. 8vo.? The Author. On the Health ofthe Royal Navy, at the End ofthe 18th and Be? ginning of the 19th Century : with Practical Illustrations. By Sir Gilbert Blane, Bt. F.R.S. 8vo.?The Author. Reflections on the present Crisis of Public Affairs ; with an Enquiry into the Causes and Remedies of the existing Clamours, and alledged Grievances of the Country. By Sir Gilbert Blane, Bt. F.R.S. 8vo.?The Author. ^ Catalogue of Oriental Manuscripts purchased at Aleppo, Damascus, Cairo, and Constantinople, by the assistance and recommendation of the late Mr. J. L. Burckhardt. 4to.?John Lee, LL.D., F.R.S. Synopsis Reptilium ; or Short Descriptions of the Species of Rep? tiles. By John E. Gray, Esq. 8vo.? The Author. An engraved Portrait of John Taylor, Esq. F.R.S. Engraved by Turner from the Painting by Sir Thomas Lawrence.?Mrs. Taylor. A Lithographic Portrait of Major-Gen. Hardwicke, F.R.S. From the Painting by Lucas.?John E. Gray, Esq. Memoire sur la Propagation du Mouvement dans les Milieux Elas- tiques. Par M. Poisson. 4to.?Baron Poisson, For. Memb. R.S. Memoire sur le Mouvement de deux Fiuides Elastiques superposes. Par M. Poisson. 4to.? The Author. Aminnelse-Tal bfrer Kongl. Vetenskaps-Academiens Framlidne Ledamot, Herr Adolf Murray, M.D. Af dess Ledamot Erik Gadelius, M.D. 8vo.?The Author. Tal om Sveriges naturforhallnden och om den inflytelse de aga pa dess naringar och slojder. Al Carl Arosenius. 8vo.? The Author. A paper was read, " On the Tides in the Port of London." By J. W. Lubbock, Esq., V.P., and Treas. R. S. This paper contains a discussion of observations of the tides made at the London Docks, and registered in various Tables, showing</page><page sequence="2">63 the time and height of high water, not only at different periods of the moon's age, but also for the different months of the year, for every minute of the moon's parallax, and for every three degrees of her declination. The tables themselves were registered by Mr. Dessiou of the Admiralty: but the arrangement of the tables and the methods employed are due to the author. The tides in the river Thames are extremely regular 3 and as the rise is considerable, the observations on them are easily made. Those at the London Docks present an uninterrupted series from the opening of the Docks in 1804 to the present time : which is more extensive than any extant, with the exception only of that made at Brest by order ofthe French Government. Some observations are also given ofthe tides made du? ring one year at the East India Docks, under the superintendence of Captain Eastfield, and which were undertaken at the suggestion ofthe author, and made with extreme care. The author gives an account of the mode by which the several tables were constructed 3 and enters at length into the various ma? thematical considerations which the subject involves. The author was enabled, by the kindness of the Chairman and Directors of the London Dock Company, to present to the Society the books containing the complete series of original observations on the tides referred to in this paper.</page></plain_text>