<plain_text><page sequence="1">'Radiograph Self RuAsessrment' An 8-year-old Yellow-naped Amazon was presented by the owner because it "just wasn't right." The physical exam reveal- ed a 542 gram bird with overgrown nails and flaking beak. The droppings were scant, with biliverdin evident in the urates. A Gram's stain of the droppings showed 200 organisms per field: 70% gram-positive rods; 30% gram-positive cocci; no gram- negatives. One to two budding yeast were visible per field. Although I believed there was little wrong with the bird, a radiograph was taken, primarily to appease the owner. Additional lab results included PCV, 40; Serum Refractometer Reading, 3.8; WBC, 14,605 (Unopette system); Diff: Het/Eos, 77%; Lymphs, 15%; Mono, 8%; adequate-appearing thrombocytes. What can be determined from the radiograph, and what might the next diagnostic step be? 202 AAV TODAY Because the bird was not showing any respiratory signs, I was not expecting to see any lung or air sac lesions; thus, I didn't see anything unusual on my first perusal of the radiograph. My technician pointed out a faint density on the left lung. After closer scrutiny of the radiograph, a lateral laparotomy was performed and, unexpectedly, 10 cc of yellowish-tan, cloudy liquid was removed from the left caudal thoracic air sac. A Gram's stain showed the material contained 3-4 colonies of 100% bud- ding yeast per field on microscopic examination. Lesions were subsequently found in the trachea upon endoscopic examination. Aggressive therapy with Fungizone (intratracheally, intravenously, and in the air sac), Ancobon, Ketoconazole and Cephulac (orally), and intramuscular administration of Polyflex resulted in complete disappearance of the lesions when a second laparotomy was performed six days later. The amazing parts of this case were: 1) there were no respiratory signs; 2) I wouldn't have taken a radiograph except the owner insisted; 3) because I believed there wasn't really anything wrong with the bird, I missed the lung lesions; 4) the bird responded extremely fast to therapy. Had I followed my first instincts, however, I'm sure the bird would have succumbed to the disease. How it turned out was one of those little serendipitous miracles in practice. - Greg J. Harrison, DVM, Lake Worth, Florida</page></plain_text>