<plain_text><page sequence="1">June 6, 1833. FRANCIS BAILY, Esq., Vice-President, in the Chair. Captain John Lihou, R.N., was elected a Fellow of the Society. Professor Desfontaines, of Paris ; Professor C. G. J. Jacobi, of Konigsberg 5 Baron von Lindenau, of Gotha ; Professor Meckel, of Halle; and M. G. de Pont?coulant, of Paris, were elected Foreign Members of the Society. A paper was read, entitled, " An Account of a Second Series of Experiments on the Resistance of Fluids to Bodies passing through them.*' By James Walker, Esq., F.R.S., Civil Engineer. The author, in a paper read to the Society in the year 1827, and printed in the Philosophical Transactions, gave an account of some experiments showing that the resistance of fluids increases in a ratio considerably higher than the square of the velocity, and that the ab? solute resistance is smaller than had been deduced from the experi? ments of the French Academy. In the present communication he states the results of his further inquiries on this subject. His expe? riments were made at the East India Docks, on a boat twenty-three feet long and six wide, with the stem and stem nearly vertical; one end being terminated by an angle of 42?, and the other of 72?; and the resistance to the boat's motion being measured by a dynamome- ter. The results are given in tables : and it appears from them, that in light vessels sharpness is more important in the bow than in the stem ; but that the reverse is the case in vessels carrying heavy car- goes. From another series of experiments the author infers that the resistance to a flat surface does not exceed 1251b. for each square</page><page sequence="2">200 foot, at a speed of one mile per hour ; increasing, for greater velo? cities, in a ratio considerably higher than the square of the velocity. The author concludes with some observations on the results lately obtained in Scotland, where great velocities were given to boats moving on canals, without a proportional increase of resistance. The reading of a paper, entitled, " Researches on the Arseniates, Phosphates, and Modifications of Phosphoric Acid," by Thomas Gra- ham, Esq., M.A., F.R.S.E., Lectureron Chemistry in the Andersonian Institution of Glasgovv; communicated by Edward Turner, M.D., F.R.S.?was commenced.</page></plain_text>