<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 10: 79-86, 1986 THE PERSONAL COMPUTER AS A TOOL FOR DATA ANALYSIS IN POPULATION AND COMMUNITY ECOLOGY N. C. KENKEL Department of Botany, The University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada R3T 2N2 An extensive package of BASIC language personal computer programs for the analysis of population and community data in ecology and other fields is described. The package, which is available for use on the Apple It family of personal computers as well as the Apple Macintosh and IBM PC, is useful both as teaching, tool and for the analysis of small to medium sized multivariate data sets. All the programs are interactive and emphasize flexibility and ease of use. The package performs a variety of useful functions, including univariate statistical calculations (mean, variance, entropy functions), computation of probability and inverse probability integrals for common statistical distr ibutions, fitting discrete and continuous dis- tributions, the analysis of variance (complete, randomized, block designs, latin square, factorial, and multivariate ANOVA), regression (simple, multiple, and nonlinear), distance and similarity calculations, character weighting, cluster anal- ysis (single link, sum of squares, centroid) , ordination (com- ponent analysis, nonmetric multidimensional scaling, corres- pondence analysis, analysis of concentration), canonical corre- lation, and nested hierarchical character structure analysis. A set of programs for file creation and manipulation is also included. The programs have been written to supplement the introductory data analysis text by Orlóci and Kenkel (1985). INTRODUCTION The dramatic increase of personal computers in both work- place and teaching environments has opened up whole new fields of inquiry in the biological sciences, particularly in those parts of the world where mainframe access is difficult and ex- pensive (Wildi 1985). The consequence of this is already being felt in the fields of population and community biology, par- ticularly with regard to the multivariate analysis of data.</page><page sequence="2">80 One problem, however, is the lack of computer software suit- able for the analysis of ecological data sets. Furthermore, many persons who might benefit from these analytical techni- ques do not have the background to implement such a strategy. The monograph and personal computer package by Orlóci and Kenkel (1985) were produced in an attempt to overcome these problems. Together the monograph and programs lead users through the statistical and computational aspects of univariate and multivariate data analysis procedures commonly used in po- pulation and community ecology. The main emphasis of our approach is on the modus operandi of data analysis, beginning with basic principles and working up to sophisticated data analytical techniques for data exploration (c.f. Tukey 1977, 1980). Topics covered include the ideas and scope of data analysis, data management and file manipulation, the nature and measure- ment of biological variables, description of populations and statistical distributions, sampling and estimation, comparison of individuals (resemblance functions), hypothesis testing (univariate and multivariate), trend seeking (regression anal- ysis), character weighting, ordination, cluster analysis, and identification. The text is supplemented with many worked examples and, where appropriate, a computer program together with example output and its interpretation are presented. While the programs were written initially for educational purposes (university undergraduate level courses in introduc- tory data analysis and multivariate analysis in community bi- ology), they should also prove useful to researchers engaged in multivariate analysis of small to medium sized data sets. DESCRIPTION OF PROGRAMS The following briefly outlines the programs and analyses they perform. Program listings and more detailed descriptions can be found in Orlóci and Kenkel (1985), and in the documen- tation which accompanies the program package. Each program has an associated 'help file1 which can be displayed on the screen prior to running the program.</page><page sequence="3">81 I . Stat i st i cal programs CORRELATION - Inner (scalar) products are calculated: correla- tion, covar iance, product moments, and duals. METRICS - Euclidean metric functions are calculated: Manhattan metric, Euclidean distance; and normalized forms. EXPONENTIAL - Simulates exponential population growth. ENTROPY - Calculates frequency distributions (single and joint), and computes various entropy and mutual entropy functions. MOMENTS - Computes moments (mean, second moment, variance), second moments (correlation, covariance), and shape co- efficients . DISTRIBUTIONS - Fits the Binomial or Poisson discrete distri- bution to count data. NORMAL - Fits the normal distribution to frequency data. RANDOM - Generates a set of random numbers, or a distribution of random values. ESTIMATE H - Performs entropy -estimation using the method of Pielou ( 1966 ) . ENTROPY/DIST - Uses Monte Carlo methods to examine the distri- bution of mutual entropy. PROBS - Computer probability or inverse probability integral for the normal distribution (standard normal deviate). CHIPROBS - Computes probability or inverse probability integral for the chi-squared distribution, at specified degrees of freedom. TPROBS - Computes probability or inverse probability integral for Student's t-distr ibution at specified degrees of freedom. FPROBS - Computes probability or inverse probability integral for F-distribtion , for a given pair of degrees of freedom values .</page><page sequence="4">82 PINDEX - Calculates similarities using the probability index of Goodall (1966) . CALHOUN - Calculates the Calhoun set theoretical distances between individuals (Bartels et al. 1970). LIMITS - Tests the hypothesis of equality between a sample mean vector and a population standard vector. TESTCOV/1 - Tests for the equality of a sample covariance matrix and a population standard matrix. ANOVA - Performs the analysis of variance: complete randomized, randomized block, and latin square designs. Also calculates Schef fé' s (1953) multiple comparisons. FANOVA - Performs factorial analysis of variance, with up to 4 factors. An equal number of replicates per treatment is assumed. Options: complete randomized, randomized block. TESTCOV/2 - Tests for the equality of 2 or more sample co- variance matrices. EMVO - Tests for the equality of 2 or more mean vectors (multivariate analysis of variance, complete randomized design). Options to perform canonical variates (multiple discriminant) analysis and profile analysis. CANCOR - Performs canonical correlation analysis. REGRESSION - Performs simple linear regression, multiple re- gression, polynomial regression, and curvilinear regres- sion. WEIGHTING/ SCP - Performs character weighting using sum of squares/cross products criteria. WEIGHTING/INF - Performs character weighting using information theory criteria. PCAR - Peforms principal components analysis : cross-products , covariance or correlation. PLOT - Produces high-resolution graphics scattergram plot on the computer screen, using output from PCAR, CANCOR, EMVO,</page><page sequence="5">83 MDSCAL, or CONCENTRATION. STEREO - Produces high-resolution graphics stereogram plot on the computer screen. MDSCAL - Performs nonmetric multidimensional scaling. SLC - Performs single linkage cluster analysis. TREE - Produces a high-resolution graphics dendrogram on the computer screen, using input from programs SLC, SSA, or ALC. ALC - Performs unweighted centroid cluster analysis (UPGMA of Sneath and Sokal 1973). SSA - Performs sum of squares agglomerative cluster analysis. ADJUST - Performs contingency table adjustments necessary for analysis of concentration (CONCENTRATION) . CONCENTRATION - Performs analysis of concentration, and cor- respondence analysis (reciprocal averaging). LATTICE - Performs a spectral decomposition of output from analysis of concentration. GENDIST - Calculates the Mahalanobis generalized distance be- tween groups (populations) and one or more individuals in an identification strategy. DISC - Performs discriminant analysis, to find the 'best' of two parental populations for a given individual vector. INVERT/DET - Finds the inverse and determinant of a square matrix . QEIGEN - Performs eigenanalysis of a square matrix (symmetric or non-symmetric). CSA.RND/1, CSA. RND/2 , CSA. SORT - These chained programs perform nested hierarchical character structure analysis as de- scribed by Orlóci et al. (1986). These programs are avail- able only with the Apple Macintosh version of the package.</page><page sequence="6">84 II. Text File Creation and Man i pu 1 at i on These programs are specific to Applesoft BASIC (Apple DC series). Because of strong differences in text file manipula- tion on the Macintosh and IBM PC, many of the programs listed are not available for these systems. MAKE TEXT - Text file creation (non-interactive). CREATE TEXT - Text file creation (interactive). APPEND TEXT - Appends rows to an existing text file, and merges two existing files. EDIT TEXT - Edits a text file by allowing the user to change values in an existing file. FORMAT TEXT - Prints a formatted text file. PRINT TEXT - Prints a text file (unformatted). SHUNT TEXT - Transfers a text file from one disk to another. TRANSPOSE TEXT - Transposes and saves a matrix stored as a text file. AVAILABILITY The program package was originally written for the Apple series of personal computers (including the ][, //+ and //e ) in Applesoft BASIC. However, versions for the APPLE Macintosh (Microsoft BASIC) and the IBM PC-XT (IBM Advanced BASIC) are now available. Information on the package, and ordering infor- mation, can be obtained by writing to: SCADA Associates, P. 0. Box 8059, Substation 41, London, Ontario N6G 2B0 Canada. A disk containing the programs is available at nominal cost; the exact price depends on the version requested and shipping charges. The distributor for the Orlóci and Kenkel (1985) monograph is: International Co-operative, P.O. Box 24 5, Bur- tonsville , MD 20730 U.S.A.</page><page sequence="7">85 LIMITATIONS A major limitation of personal computers continues to be the limited amount of the available memory. The Apple //e (64 K), for example, can handle only fairly modest-sized mat- rices in multivariate analysis. The new generation of personal computers, particularly Apple's Macintosh plus, can easily handle much larger data sets, however. All the programs assume that the user has a printer hooked up to the personal computer. Those programs which dump graphics from the screen to the printer (PLOT, STEREO, and TREE) may have to be modified to suit the user's particular printer/interface configuration. The programs are purposely designed so that the user must be familiar with both their computer and the data analysis method which the program per- forms . CONCLUSION An extensive program package written for Apple 3C, Mac- intosh, and IBM PC personal computers, together with an intro- ductory text on data analysis in population and community ecology, was described. The package should be of use both in teaching methods of data analysis and in applied research. REFERENCES Bartels, P. H., P. H. Bahr, D. W. Calhoun and G. L. Weid. 1970. Cell recognition by neighbourhood grouping techniques in Ticas. Acta Cytologia 14:313-324 Goodall, D. W. 1966. A new similarity index based on probab- ility. Biometrics 22:883-907 Orlóci, L., E. Feoli, D. Lausi and P. L. Nimis. 1986. Estima- tion of character structure convergence (divergence) in plant communities: a nested hierarchical model. Coenoses 1:11-20</page><page sequence="8">86 Orlóci, L. and N. C. Kenkel. 1985. Introduction to Data Analysis with applications from Population and Community Ecology. International Co-operative, Fairland, Maryland. 340 p. Pielou, E. C. 1966. The measurement of diversity in different types of biological collections. J. theoret. Biol. 13: 131-144 Scheffé, H. 1953. A method for judging all contrasts in the analysis of variance. Biometrika 40:87-104 Sneath, P. H. A. and R. R. Sokal. 1973. Numerical Taxonomy. Freeman, San Francisco. Tukey, J. W. 1977. Exploratory Data Analysis. Addison-Wesley , Reading, Mass. Tukey, J. W. 1980. We need both exploratory and confirmatory. American Statistician 34:23-25 Wildi, O. 1985. A package for the analysis of vegetation data by microcomputers. Abstracta Botanica 9:153-159 (Received June 5, 1986)</page></plain_text>