<plain_text><page sequence="1">194 tions of Mr. Biggin and Mr. Davy, which show that the proportion of tan in the same trees is different at different seasons, and that it is principally contained in the white interior bark, which bark is comparatively most abundant in young trees, he observes, that there seems to be an intimate connexion between the formation of new wood and the formation of tan, in those vegetables which afford the latter; and thinks it very probable that such vegetables have the facult3r-of absorbing more carbon and oxygen than is required in the formation of the vegetable principles, especially of the woody fibre; and that this excess of carbon and oxygen, by chemical com- bination, becomes tan, which is secreted in the white interior bark, and afterwards decomposed, and employed in the formation of the new wood. The ligneous substance of vegetables, Mr. Hatchett says, appears to be composed of carbon, oxygen, hydrogen, and nitrogen; and he has reason to think, from some synthetical experiments he has made, that tan consists of 53 parts of pure carbon, and 47 of oxygen. In the concluding section, Mr. Hatchett observes, that the whole of the present paper may be concentrated into one simple fact, namely, that tan is composed (at least essentially) of carbon and oxygen; and that, although it has hitherto been deemed a peculiar principle, formed by nature in certain vegetables, it may, with the greatest ease, be produced, by presenting oxygen to carbon in the humid way, under the circumstances which have been described. Since the experiments which have been related were made, Mr. Hatchett has, he says, further proved the efficacy of the factitious tan by actual practice; as he has converted skins into leather by means of tan produced from materials which, to professional men, must appear extraordinary, such as deal sawdust, asphaltum, turpen- tine, pit-coal, wax candle, and a piece of the same sort of skin. Allowing, therefore, that the artificial production of tan must for the present be principally regarded only as a curious chemical fact, not altogether unimportant, yet, as the principle on which it is founded has been developed, we may, Mr. Hatchett thinks, hope that a more economical process will be discovered, so that every tanner may be enabled to prepare his tan, even from the refuse of his present ma- terials. The Case of a full-grown Woman in whom the Ovaria were deficient. By Mr. Charles Pears, F.L.S. Communicated by the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, K.B. P.R.S. Read May 9, 1805. [Phil, Trans. 1805, p. 225.] The woman whose case is here described was born in Radnorshire in the year 1770. She was of a fair complexion, and, except when irritated, of a mild temper. In her diet she was remarkably abste- mious, eating very little, either of animal or vegetable food; and if at any time she ate a hearty meal, or took several kinds of food, she was so much affected by it as to faint. She was of a costive habit,</page><page sequence="2">195 seldom having a passage oftener than once in nine days, sometimes only once in fourteen days. She ceased to grow at ten years of age, and was only four feet six inches in height. Across the shoulders she measured fourteen inches, but her pelvis measured only nine inches, from the ossa ilia to the sacrum. Her breasts and nipples never enlarged more than those of a man; nor did she ever men- struate, or show any other sign of puberty, either in mind or body; on the contrary, she always expressed aversion to the familiarities of young men. At the age of twenty-one she became uneasy at finding herself different from other women, and, attributing the difference to her not having menstruated, frequently applied for medical advice. She was, from her infancy, subject to the attacks of a complaint in the chest, attended with cough. These attacks increased in vio- lence as she advanced in age; and in her twenty-ninth year, one of them came on, attended with convulsions, of which, after a few hours, she died. Upon examining the female organs after her death, it appeared that the os tincwe and uterus had the usual form, but had not increased beyond their size in the infant state. The passage into the uterus, through the cervix, was oblique, and the Fallopian tubes were per- vious to the fimbrie. The ovaria were so indistinct that they rather showed the rudiments which ought to have formed them, than any part of their natural structure. From the history of the preceding case, it appears, not only that an imperfect state of the ovaria is attended with an absence of all the characters belonging to the female after puberty, but also that the uterus itself, although perfectly formed, was checked in its growth, in consequence of the imperfect structure of those parts. A Description of Malformation in the Heart of an Infant. By Mr. Hugh Chudleigh Standert. Communicated by Anthony Carlisle, Esq. F.R.S. Read May 9, 1805. [Phil. Trans. 1805, p. 228.] The infant here treated of died at the age of ten days, during which period nothing particular was remarked, except that the skin exhi- bited the blue colour so common in cases of imperfect pulmonary circulation. Upon opening the body, all the viscera were found in the natural state, except the heart, which exhibited the following remarkable structure: Externally, only one auricle could be perceived, into which the pulmonary veins and venwe cavae entered in the usual manner. The pulmonary artery was wanting, and the body of the heart had but one ventricle, which was separated from the auricle by tendinous valves, and opened into the aorta. The auricle was also single, and had a narrow muscular band, which crossed the ostium venosum, in the place of the septum. The aorta sent off an artery from the situation of the ductus arteriosus: this o 2</page></plain_text>