<plain_text><page sequence="1">65 entering into intimate union witlh the oxide of platinum, produces fulminating platinum. The theories invented by Bergmann and Ber- thollet, to explain the detonation of fulminating gold, are satisfac- torily applicable to the phenomena presented by the compound now described, the explosive powers of which may be referred to the sudden extrication of nitrogen, ammonia, and aqueous vapour. On the Parallax of the fixed Stars. By John Pond, Esq., Astrono- mer Royal, F.R.S. Read February 20, 1817. [Phil. Trans. 1817, p. 158.] Dr. Brinkley, of the Observatory of Dublin, having noticed for several years past a periodical deviation of several fixed stars from their mean places, strongly indicating the existence in tllem of an- nual parallax, the author was induced to institute a series of obser- vations upon the subject, the results of which are submitted to the Royal Society in the present communication. Being unable to de- vote the mural circle, erected at the Royal Observatory in 1812, entirely to this investigation, the Astronomer Royal employed two ten-feet telescopes, fixed to stone piers, and directed to the parti- cular stars whose parallax was suspected, and furnished with micro- meters for the purpose of comparing them with other stars passing throughl the same field. The question of parallax is, theoretically speaking, rather curious than important; but with regard to the state of practical astronomy the case is very different, and, as far as relates to the natural history of the sidereal system, it is a subject of interest to ascertain whether the distances of the nearest fixed stars can be numerically expressed from satisfactory data, or whether it be so immeasurably great as to exceed all human powers either to conceive or determine. The principal stars observed by Dr. Brinkley were, a Lyrse, a Aquilse, a Cygni. The mean of forty observations of a Lyr;e, made by the Astro- nomer Royal between June 22 and August 21, gave for the north polar distance of that star 510 23' 0" 278. The mean of twenty ob- servations nearer the period of opposition gave 510 23' 0"`468. The mean of thirty winter observations is 51? 23' 0"'872. The discord- ance, therefore, between the winter and summer observations does not exceed 0' 6, which is only one third the discordance observed by Dr. Brinkley. With a Cygni the total discordance in favour of parallax was 0"'556; also only one third that observed by Dr. Brinkley; and with a Aquilae it is less than 0"`5, equal only to one fourth of the discordance observed by Dr. Brinkley. From these and other observations detailed in the paper, the Astronomer Royal observes, that in the three stars supposed by Dr. Brinkley to have the greatest parallax, the discordance between the summer and winter observations is not less than 0"'5, and scarcely exceeds 0"75 : and that although these quantities are much less VOL. II. F</page><page sequence="2">than those found by Dr. Brinkley, they appear to be equally inde- pendent of accidental error. The author, however, is not inclined to refer the cause of the differences to parallax, for they are sensibly increased by direct comparison with an opposite star, as with Capella, in which the maximum of parallax is nearly as great as in a Aquilwe; and it is very unlikely that the parallax of one star should exceed .5', and that of the other be an insensible quantity. More- over, all these stars pass the meridian about the time of the winter solstice at their maximum of parallax; and in proportion as stars do not possess this property, both the Astronomer Royal and Dr. Brinkley either find a much smaller discordance, or none at all; the author accordingly is inclined to look for some explanation of the difficulties in this peculiar circumstance. Tables are annexed to this paper, showing the method of com- puting the equation, or index error, applicable to the north polar distances. Appendix to Mr. Pond's Paper on Parallax. Read March 13, 1817. [Phil. Trans. 1817, p. 173.] Being induced last autumn to suspect that the discordance in favour of parallax, before met with, might arise from variation of temperature, the author endeavoured last winter to keep the interior and exterior of the Observatory of the same temperature, which the mildness of the season easily enabled him to do. From the 1st of July 1816 to March 1817, the index error of the instrument suffered no variation; and therefore the objections urged by Dr. Brinkley were done away. Under these circumstances the observations of a Lyroe, y Draconis, a Cygni, and a Aquilke, showed no indication of periodical variation. Whether the fixed instruments lately erected for this investigation will confirm the above result remains to be determined. An Account of some Fossil Remains of the Rhinoceros, discovered by Mr. Whitby, in a Cavern inclosed in the Lime-stone Rock, from which he isforming the Break-water at Plymouth. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read February 27, 1817. [Phil. Trans. 1817, p. 176.] Having been requested by Sir Joseph Banks carefully to preserve such organic remains as might be found in the quarries -whence the supplies of limestone for the break-water at Plymouth are drawn, Mr. WThitby, who has the superintendance of the undertaking, transmitted, in November 1816, a box of fossil bones, which form the subject of the present communication. According to nIr. Whitby's report, they were found in a cavern of the solid limestone rock, fifteen feet wide, forty-five long, and twelve deep. It was filled with clay, and the bones lay about three feet above the bottom. -This cavern is about seventy feet below the</page></plain_text>