<plain_text><page sequence="1">137 through two wires, Such wires repel each other, because their op- posite sides are in similar magnetic states. A Communication of a singular Fact in NVatural History. By the Right Honourable the Earl of Morton, F.R.S. In a Letter addressed to the President. Read November 23, 1820. [Phil. Trans. 1821, p. 20.] Being desirous of domesticating the Quagga in this country, his Lordship ,endeavoured to procure some individuals of that species, but being disappointed in obtaining a female, an attempt was made to breed from the male and an Arabian chestnut mare; the result was a female hybrid, now five years old, and showing her mixed origin both in form and colour. The Arabian mare has since been bred from, by a black Arabian horse, and the produce, namely, a two year old filly and a year old colt, though in most respects fine specimens of the Arabian breed, are marked with certain stripes and lines belonging exclusively to the Quagga: the manes are especially unlike those of the Arabian breed. It is a striking fact, observes his Lordship, that so many features not belonging to the dam, should in two successive instances be trans- ferred by her to the progeny of a sire who has them not., Particulars of a Fact, nearly similar to that related by Lord Morton, communicated to the President, in a Letter from Daniel Giles, Esq. Read November 23, 1820. [Phil. Trans. 1821, p. 23.] In the litter of a black and white sow, by a boar of the wild breed, the chestnut colour of the boar strongly prevailed; a second litter from the same mother, by a boar of a very different breed, retained many peculiarities of the wild breed; and even in a third litter the chestnut colour was to a certain extent evident. The Croonian Lecture. Microscopical Observations on the following Subjects. On the Brain and Nerves; showing that the Materials of which they are composed exist in the Blood. On the Discovery of Valves in the Branches of the Vas breve, lying between the Villouns and Muscular Coats of the Stomach. On the Structure of the Spleen. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read December 7, 1820. [Phil. Trans. 1821, p. 25.] By a microscopic examination of the retina and optic nerve, Mr. Bauer found them to consist of globules of -, g to -, ,- of an inch diameter, united by a transparent viscid and coagulable gelatinous fluid: the brain also, according to the same observer, consists of the same globules, united by the viscid jelly, and forming a fibrous ar- rangement. After describing the peculiarities in texture of the different parts of the brain, Sir Everard adverts to the circumstance of lymphatics</page></plain_text>