<plain_text><page sequence="1">207 side (or within the interior surface of the stratum) with equal force in opposite directions. On the Corrosion of Copper-sheeting by Sea-water, and on Methods of preventing this Effect; and on their Application to Ships of War and other Ships. By Sir Humphry Davy, Bart. P.R.S. Read January 22, 1824. [Phil. Trans. 1824, p. 151.] When copper sheeting, however pure the metal may be, is exposed to sea-water, a green rust is formed upon it; which, when washed off, is replaced by a similar substance, till the whole of the metal is thus destroyed by corrosion. To prevent this effect, the President avails himself of the modification of chemical affinities, derived from electrical power; and in pursuing his researches in relation to this subject, he found the above-mentioned action upon copper counter- acted by any weak negative electricity easily excited in it by the contact of a surface of tin not exceeding T-Ig-th that of the copper, and made part of an electric circuit in sea-water. Other metals may be substituted, but the facility with which a perfect contact is made by solder with tin, and the facility with which its submuriate de- taches from the metal, induce Sir Humphry Davy to regard it as best adapted to the purpose. He observes, further, that the cause which prevents the oxidation of the copper will also probably pre- vent the adhesion of marine animals and of vegetables. After ad- verting to the unequivocal and satisfactory results of his experiment made upon a small scale, the author states that the Lords Commis- sioners of the Admiralty have enabled him to make arrangements for pursuing them upon a very extended plan. A finite and exact Expression for the Refraction of an Atmosphere nearly resembling that of the Earth. By Thomas Young, M.D. For.Sec.R.S. ReadFebruary5, 1824. [Phil. Trans. 1824,p. 159.] Having shown that if the pressure of the atmosphere be represented either by the square, or by the cube of the square root of the density, the astronomical refraction may be attained in a finite equation; and having adverted to Mr. Ivory's computation of the refraction with the assistance of converging series, and several transformations from an equation which expresses the pressure in terms of the density and of its square, Dr. Young proceeds to observe, that if we substitute for the simple density the cube of its square root, we shall represent the constitution of the most important part of the atmosphere with equal accuracy, although this expression supposes the total height somewhat smaller than the truth; and that we shall thus obtain a direct equation for the refraction, which agrees very nearly with Mr. Ivory's table, and still more accurately with that in the Nautical Al- manac, and with the French tables. At the horizon the refraction is equal to 33' 49"15, which is only 1"-5 less than the quantity assigned by the French tables and in the</page></plain_text>