<plain_text><page sequence="1">letters to the editor_ Suggested INSTRUCTIONS TO AUTHORS I look forward to receiving the AAY Newsletter. Although there is always much news and information of interest and value in 1t, much poten tially very useful data is lost or rendered meaningless, especially for or to International members, through failure of some authors to spedfy details of drugs used or di scussed. It should (&gt;e realized that drugs are often marketed under different brand names overseas. One person's famil iarity with a preparation should not give rise to the assumption that everyone 1s as familiar. There are many differing dose rates even of the sane brand in the same species in the literature and there is and will be a continuing need to document practical drug usage, pharmacodynamics and spe cies-specific reactions, be they favorable or adverse. I therefore suggest you prepare an "INSTRUCTION FOR AUTHORS" for I.M.E.'s, etc. to state or specify regarding drug usage: a) scientific name b) strength or concentration c) aqueous or in oil, etc., where appl1cable d! brand name and manufacturer Thanks to Veterinary Students On behalf of AAY, I want to ex:ress my sincere appreciation to the veterinary students (primarily from Gainesville), who assisted in structors during the wet labs in Miami. Their participation made the laos go much smoother. Some of these people were so committed, they came at 7:30 a.m. and stayed until after clean-up at 8:30 p.m.! Many tnanks. Or another note, we were missing 2 K wi-e drivers when we packed uo the bo-rowed equipment to return to Kirschner. If anyone Inadvertently packed up this equipment in their own surgical kit, please return i: to me ara I will forward 1t on to the K-&gt;schner Company. Don Harris, DYM South Kendall Animal Clinic 9501 S.W. 16Cth St. Miami , F. 33157 e) method and route of administra tion f) indicate the species treated and an estimate of their numbers, e.g. Hat least one (ten or twenty) Cacatua galerlta were given.. g) state whether any iatrogenic effects were noted, and give details where appropriate h) Ideally, details of age, sex, physiological status, concurrent disease status, etc. should also be provided. All, except perhaps the last of these should be known to each author and only require a little more elbow grease and time to push the pen a little further for everyone's benefit. Ross Perry Forestville, AUSTRALIA Announcing Association of Pigeon Veterinarians I am pleased and excited to announce the formation of a new group - the Association of Pigeon Veterin arians. On July 27, 1986 1n St. Louis, Missouri, at the meeting of the American Pigeon Fanciers Council, the group was formed. There were a few less than 30 veterinarians inter ested in pigeon medicine attending. Our key speaker was Gerry Dorrestein of The Netherlands. His presentation was outstanding. Veterinarians worldwide should be grateful for Dr. Dorrestein's accomplishments but probably no group has benefited more than those Interested in pigeon medi cine. A number of goals were set at the organizational meeting. The most important goal for 1986 Is the pro duction of pamphlets with the most up-to-date information on therapy for the control of 3 major pigeon dis eases. Committees were assigned to make this information available on: 1. salmonellosis (paratyphoid) 2. trichomoni asi s 3. internal parasites 41</page><page sequence="2">I hope that this literature will soon be made available by the American Pigeon Fanciers Council to all who are interested. One of the other accomplishments at the organizational meeting was the composition of a charter, or state ment of intention by the Association of Pigeon Veterinarians. MWe, the Association of Pigeon Veterinarians, are formed for the promotion of worldwide pigeon health. Our goals include preventive medicine and treatment of pigeon diseases through the implementation of a com prehensive health program. It is our belief that through cooperative ef forts of pigeon veterinarians, pigeon fanciers and flyers, we can promote health of pigeons for future genera tions." Many of the pigeon veterinarians are already members of the AAV. Shortly we expect to be 100% in mem bership. We hope that we will have the support of the AAY, much as the Avian Technicians have had, and that we will be able to use the Newsletter as a means of disseminating informa tion on pigeon medicine. We would like to invite all members of AAV who are interested in pigeons and doves to join this specialty group. Oues are $10 per year, payable to the Association of Pigeon Veterinarians. Send your checks to Kathy Fryar, DYM, Treasurer, 701 F.M. 1097 W., Willis, TX 77378. Roger Harlin, DVM Corresponding Secretary and Public Relations Other officers of the Association of Pigeon Veterinarians are: President: David Marks, Norman, OK Vice-Pres. Jon Esposito, El Paso, TX Recording Secretary: Everett Bryant, Storrs, CT Parrot Symposium Delayed Word was received from the Cur rumbin Sanctuary in Australia that there were delays in organizing the International Parrot Symposium that was scheduled to be held in Queens land in May, 1986. A new date has not been set.</page></plain_text>