<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 16: 49-54 (1992) © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest Coexistence and pattern diversity in communities of clonal organisms: a model based on cellular automata T. Herben Botanical Institute, Czechoslovak Academy of Sciences, 252 43 Průhonice, Czechoslovakia Keywords: Ageing, Dispersal, Grain of pattern, Growth form. Abstract: In communities of sessile clonal organisms, the relation between spatial pattern and spatial competitive processes is easily modelled by cellular automata based models. Such models enable us to examine the effect of small scale processes acting within the community on its large scale pattern and dynamics.Two species systems differing in growth form, age of senescence within a cell and dispersal rate were simulated. The results show that growth form and age of senescence are pivotal for coexistence and pattern, whereas the effect of the value of the dispersal was generally small in the parameter region studied. Under the "frond" growth form, the coexistence of species was dependent on the life span within a cell, whereas the "cushion" growth form enabled the coexistence of the species under all parameter values. This growth form system showed marked oscillations increasing rapidly with increasing senescence limit. The grain of the spatial pattern increased rapidly with the increasing age limit. Small changes in parameter values may cause large shifts in the system behaviour. One type of a spatial process with slightly varying parameters may hence result in very different spatial pattern. Introduction Most processes which build vegetation are essen- tially local. Their typical radius of action does not exceed vety much the size of a plant in- dividual/module; they may even act on much smaller distances. This is true for shading, nutrient competition, clonal growth, seed transport, etc. In contrast, vegetation is a large scale phenomenon, exhibiting properties of its own, such as horizontal pattern, vertical stfucture, global dynamics, succession, etc. In many cases these properties of vegetation can be reasonably studied without recurring to the fine scale proces- ses acting between plant individuals; in other cases such explicit reference to the local structur- ing processes is necessary. There are some pioneering efforts to relate these two levels of vegetation in a conceptual way: for example, the notion of sociological pattern of Kershaw (1964) or the nucleation concept of succession of Yar- ranton &amp; Morrisson (1975). Quite surprisingly, the idea behind these concepts has not been more systematically pursued; therefore there is still a large gap between the two levels of plant ecology, i.e. functional ecology studying components of the fine scale processes and vegetation analysis with vegetation patterns and large scale processes. The gap between these levels is not due to different approaches applied in these branches (such as ex- perimental vs. observational). The study of the relation between these two levels is indeed a major challenge for plant ecology. One of the reasons for this gap is the paucity of available tools to handle this relation between local structuring processes and vegetation pat- terns. The representation of the system should take account of the the feedback nature of the pattern and process relation. Until now, namely the effect of pattern on process (e.g. spatial pat- tern on competition) has been studied (Leps &amp; Kindlmann 1987, Czárán &amp; Bartha 1989, Green 1989). Generally there are no analytically solvable mathematical models; simulation models are needed, which, on the other hand, suffer from many drawbacks, namely the limited validity of the results outside of the region of parameters used in simulations.</page><page sequence="2">50 Herben: Coexistence and pattern diversity Cellular automata (Wolfram 1984) are one of the tools available to investigate this relationship, to make inferences about the effects of fine scale processes (such as competition in ecology of plants) on large scale behaviòur or global patterns (such as vegetation spatial pattern and its dynamics). They are conceptually very simple dis- crete systems, which are based on a network of cells (typically rectangular), where each cell is al- lowed to be in one state from a finite set of states. States of cells change in discrete steps according to a fixed set of rules. These rules determine how the change of the state of a particular cell is dependent on the state of this cell and on the states of its neighbouring cells in the previous step. Very simple cellular automata systems (simple in terms of number of states and number of rules) are capable of very complex behaviour (Wolfram 1984). Cellular automata have been used several times to solve ecological questions involving local interactions, such as coexistence of clonally spreading species under different assump- tions of coexistence (Crawley &amp; May 1987, Karlson &amp; Buss 1984, Karlson &amp; Jackson 1981), effects of nearest-neighbour pollination (Turner et al. 1979, Sokal &amp; Jaçquez 1991), generation of species patterns (Hogeveg et al. 1985) or genet vs. ramet survivorship in clonally spreading or- ganisms (Inghe 1989). These capabilities make cellular automata models veiy useful tools especially in plant ecology, namely in the systems where the neighbourhood- dependent processes running in the system exert important influence on the macroscopic be- haviour (incl. pattern) of the system. This is the case of communities of clonally spreading plants, since the clonal plants share a set of features which make the local interactions the primary structuring force of their communities. These are: - as in the majority of plants, their communities are primarily formed by processes which operate at short (neighbour-to-neighbour) distance. The global interactions are virtually lacking. - movement in space is often crucial for the per- sistence of a species in the community (Lovett Doust 1981, Bell 1984, Lovett Doust &amp; Lovett Doust 1985) - many clonal species show high degree of space monopolization (tussock forming grasses, bryo- phytes, lichens, etc.). Owing to the above processes, the spatial struc- ture of the communities of clonal plants is often very complex and its relation to the processes operating in the community is often not easy to determine. The cellular automata models may help here (i) to find conditions of clonal species coexistence, (ii) to examine the effect of principal mechanisms of species coexistence on spatial pat- tern and pattern-and-process relation. Example This is an hypothetical community of two space monopolizing species, which are able to spread lo- cally in a clonal way in all directions and, to a lesser degree, are also able to disperse by space in- dependent means such as propagules over some distance. Both species are equally well able to spread over a free space. Species A is competitive- ly superior over species B, i.e. it is able to settle in patches already occupied by species B. Further, both species are of limited life span on a given patch of space; after a specified number of time steps the patch of the species becomes "aged". "Ageing" can mean either simple limited life span of a module, specific morphological pattern of species growth (as e.g. in thallose hepatics) or some autoinhibitory process like accumulation of the dead biomass, specific resource depletion, etc. This can result either in mortality of plants in a patch which has become "aged" (as observed e.g. in epilithic lichens or many arctic plants) or in changing competitive relations to other species (as observed in epilithic bryophytes, and arctic plants). Such a situation describes rather well the case for two cryptogamic species (mosses, lichens) over a flat surface (Hawksworth &amp; Chater 1979, Pentecost 1980, Jahns 1982) or clonal plants in arctic/alpine environments (Kershaw 1960, Pysek &amp; Liska 1991) Model structure The development of the species is modelled in a rectangular grid of cells. The following processes are assumed to take place: (1) clonal spreading of the species to neighbour- ing cells. The invasion of a given cell will occur in the immediately following time step if the dominant species is present in at least one cell out of the 4-cell neighbourhood. Species A is able to spread both to free cells and cells occupied by the species B; species B is able to spread only to free cells. (2) "ageing" of species in a cell if a cell is occupied continuously by the same species for sufficiently</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta Botanica 16 (1992) 51 long time. The ageing has either of these two ef- fects: (i) the species dies in the cell and leaves the cell free (this growth form is further called "frond"). In this case a species, growing separately, forms rec- tangular (or circular, depending on parameter values) fronds, moving across the grid. (ii) becomes "old", but does not die (further called "cushion"). "Old" means that the particular cell oc- cupied by the species can be invaded by another species even if this species is otherwise competi- tively inferior. Old stand is also not capable of the clonal spreading over the free space. These two types are further referred to as growth forms, though the difference between "frond" and "cushion" need not necessarily be due to differen- ces in species morphology, but may reflect wider ecosystem process (resource depletion, organic matter accumulation, etc.) (3) dispersal to free cells not neighbouring al- ready colonized cells. The rate of this spreading is much lower than the rate of the spread to neigh- bouring cells. Parameters used in simulations are in Table 1. The simulation started as a grid of free space, with each species occupying one cell, not neighbouring the cell occupied by the other species (of coordinates 25,17 and 25,33 respec- tively). The stands were simulated over 50 time steps. Each run was repeated three times. During the simulation, the frequencies of both species and of free space were recorded, together with a measure of pattern diversity of the stand. Pattern diversity was expressed as the ratio of the number of contacts between cells occupied by different species (free space taken as a species) to the num- ber of such contacts expected under random dis- tribution' of species of given frequencies in the infinite cell grid. A full record of the stand pattern was taken at the end of each simulation. Mode! results The simulations differed widely in the ability of species to coexist, in the time course of their deve- lopment and in the spatial pattern. The coexistence of species was dependent on the limit of ageing under the "frond" growth form; in- ferior species perished in all runs with ageing limit greater than 3 time steps. In contrast, the "cushion" growth form enabled the coexistence of the species over observed time interval under all parameter values (Table 2). Table 1. Parameters of the model Grid size 50x50 cells Boundaries closed Number of species 2 ( + free space) Spreading rate (probability that a cell is colonized if the 1 potential colonizer is in the immediate neighbourhood) Dispersal parameter I colonize (probability open that space a species not will colonize open space not 0. 02, 0. 05, 0. 1 neighbouring already colonized cells) Growth form (see text) frond, cushion Ageing parameter (number of time steps after which the 2,3,4,6 species becomes "aged") Number of time steps 50 Number of runs per 3 parameter combination Initial state each species occupies one cell Table 2. Regions of coexistence of the species. Growth form of "cushion" "frond" both species Age limit (time steps) 2 coexistence coexistence 3 coexistence coexistence 14 6 coexistence coexistence no no coexistence coexistence 6 coexistence no coexistence The time course of species frequencies varied very much among the modelled systems. In the "cushion" growth form, the oscillations within the systems increased rapidly with increasing age limit (Figures 1-2). In the "frond" system the increase of oscillations with age limit was much slower. In both cases the oscillations were of the same shape: the frequency and amplitude of the oscilla- tions are closely correlated (Fig. 3). The resulting spatial pattern of simulated com- munities differed tremendously (Fig. 4). The general trend is the increase of the spatial grain (i.e. decrease of the pattern diversity) with the in-</page><page sequence="4">52 Herben: Coexistence and pattern diversity Figure 1. Example of the time development of the model. Growth form: "cushion", Dispersal: 0. 02; survival within a cell: A - 2 steps, B - 3 steps, C - 4 steps. creasing age limit. The difference is much more pronounced in the "cushion" growth form; there is an abrupt change in pattern between ageing limits 2 and 3. In the "frond" growth form, the effect of age limit on spatial pattern is much milder, though of similar type. Both growth forms cannot be directly compared for the age limits which do not support the coexistence of species. Discussion The species parameters most important for coexistence and spatial pattern are growth form type and ageing limit. Though both systems differ- ing in the growth forms present behave rather dif- ferently, in both of them there is a sharp qualitative transition of behaviour with increasing age limit. The "cushion" growth form abruptly shifts from a fine grained mixture of both species to large one-species patches; the "frond" growth form shifts from a fine grained mixture of both species to a system in which the inferior com- petitor is unable to survive. The effect of the value of the dispersal is surpris- ing. Though the coexistence of species is enabled by dispersal, the particular value of this parameter is only of minor importance both for the species frequencies and pattern diversity. This is obvious- ly valid only within a given range of values, but the range studied is not very small. The pattern type and diversity is influenced by dispersal magnitude only to a negligible degree. It also does not affect qualitative change in the model behaviour with Figure 2. Oscillation period (a) and pattern diversity (b) as functions of life span within a cell and growth form in systems supporting stable coexistence of two species. A (full line) - "cushion", dispersal = 0. 02; B (dashed line) - "cushion", dispersal = 0. 05, C (dotted line) - "frond", dis- persal = 0. 05</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 16 (1992) 53 Figure 3. Relation between period (1/frequency) and amplitude of all systems. Each run is represented by one point. Figure 4. Spatial pattern at the end of the run. Squares - species 1 (competitively inferior), points - species 2 (competi- tively dominant), open spaces - free space. A - "cushion", life span within a cell = 2, B - "frond", life span within a cell = 2, C - "cushion", life span within a cell = 5, D - "frond", life span within a cell = 5. respect to other variables. Very high dispersal will change the nature of the whole system, reducing the role of local interactions and making the be haviour of the modelled systems approach to models involving only global interactions. Now it would be desirable to find in suitable com- munities "frond" and "cushion" types, compare their growth parameters and especially their pat- tern and ability to coexist. Some examples seem to be easy to find, especially among two dimensional cryptogamic communities: Lecanora muralis, Lobaria pulmonaria or Parmelia centrifuga are "frond" type; Hypnurn cupressiforme or Leucodon sciuroides is a "cushion" type. There are many studies on pattern in such communities (Pen- tecost 1980, Usher 1983, Woolhouse et al. 1985), but generally they do not provide data on the dynamic processes behind this pattern or even temporal change in this pattern. Quite surprising- ly, this seems to be a case of higher plant studies as well. For example, a register of permanent plot studies in Britain (Hill &amp; Radford 1986) does not report a single example of such a study. The data reported there usually record either global chan- ges of all species within a community without recording their spatial dynamics, or treat spatial dynamics and pattern of only one species. Surpris- ingly, the in situ internal spatial dynamics of a community has not been accorded sufficient at- tention in plant ecology. During ąnd his col-</page><page sequence="6">54 Herben: Coexistence and pattern diversity laborators (During &amp; van Tooren 1988 and references therein) have studied thorougly the relation between pattern and dynamics in bryophyte communities using "high resolution" permanent plots. Their plots showed surprisingly rapid dynamics, both in terms of species replace- ments and local species appearance and extinc- tion. This dynamics depended in a complicated way on species growth form and was often nonsta- tionary in time. They were also able to identify a relation between pattern diversity and dynamics within bryophyte communities, what is an essen- tial feature of systems behaving in a "cellular automata way" and easily modelled by this ap- proach. If one type of a spatial process with slightly vary- ing parameters results in very different spatial pattern (e.g. a fine grained mixture of both species to large one-species patches), as the model results show, permanent plot studies will become again an important research tool to study the com- munity functioning. This is especially true for "high resolution" plots. Paradoxically, the proper evaluation of nonlinear phenomena like those described in this study in ecosystems may redirect attention back to the observation of processes really taking place in the communities in the field. Experimental ecology is generally able to study very simple questions - basically finding possible microscopic processes which could make the building blocks of the interaction network in ecosystems. It maps the microscopic universe of possibilities ; the world of macroscopic processes really taking place is generally outside its realm and could be approached by observations of processes together with deductive modelling. References Bell, A. D. 1984. Dynamic morphology: a contribution to plant* population ecology. In: Dirzo R. &amp; Sarukhan J, [eds. ] Perspectives on plant population biology, Sinauer Assoc. , Sunderland, pp. 48-65. Crawley, M. J. &amp; May, R. M. 1987. Population dynamics and plant community structure: competition between annuals and perennials. J. Theor. Biol. 125:475-. Czárán, T. &amp; Bartha, S. 1989. The effect of spatial pattern on the community dynamics: a comparison of simulated and field data. Vegetatio 83:229-239. During, H. J. &amp; van Thoren, B. 1988. Pattern and dynan'ics in the bryophyte layer of a chalk grassland. In: During H. J. , Werger M. J. A. &amp; Willems J. H. [eds. ]: Diversity and pat- tern in plant communities, SPB Acad. Pubi. , The Hague, pp. 195-208. Green, D. G. 1989. Simulated effects of fire, dispersal and spa- tial pattern on competition within forest mosaic. Vegetatio 82:139-153. Hill, M. O. &amp; Radford, G. L. 1986. Register of permanent vegetation plots. Inst. Terrestrial Ecology, Abbots Ripton. Hogeweg, P. et al. 1985. Patterns in vegetation succession, an ecomorphological study. In: White J. [ed. ] Population structure of vegetation, Handbook of vegetation science 3, Dr. W. Junk Pubi. , The Hague, pp. 637-666. Inghe, O. 1989. Genet and ramet survivorship under different mortality regimes - a cellular automata model. J. Theor. Biol. 138:257-270. Karlson, R. H. &amp; Buss, L. W. 1984. Competition, disturbance and local diversity patterns of substratum bound clonal or- ganisms: a simulation. Ecol. Model. 23:243-255. Karlson, R. H. &amp; Jackson, J. B. C. 1981. Competitive networks and community structure: a simulation study. Ecology 62:670-678. Kershaw, K. A. 1960. Cyclic and pattern phenomena as ex- hibited by Alchemilla alpina. J. Ecol. 48:443-453. Kershaw, K. A. 1964. Quantitative and dynamic plant ecology. Arnold, London. Leps, J. &amp; Kindlmann, P. 1989. Models of the development of spatial pattern of an even aged plant population over time. Ecol. Model. 39:45-57. Lovett Doust, L. 1981. Population dynamics and local specialization in a clonal plant Ranunculus repens. I. The dynamics of ramets in contrasting habitats. J. Ecol. 69,743- 755. Lovett Doust, L. &amp; Lovett Doust, J. 1985. The battle strategies of plants. New Scientist 95: 81-85 Pentecost, A. Í980. Aspects of competition in saxicolous lichen communities. Lichenologist 12:135-144. Pysek, P. &amp; Liska, J. 1991. Colonization of Sibbaldia tetrandra cushions on alpine scree in the Pamiro-Altai Mountains, central Asia. Arctic Alpine Res. 23:263-272. Sokal, R. R. &amp; Jacquez, G. M. 1991. Tèsting inferences about microevolutionaiy processes by means of spatial autocor- relation analysis. Evolution 45:152-168. Tbrner, M. E. et al. 1979. Homozygosity and patch structure in plant populations as a result of nearest neighbor pollina- tion. Proc. Natl. Acad. Sci. USA 79:203- 207. Usher, M. B. 1983. Pattern in simple moss-turf communities in the sub-Antarctic and maritime Antarctic. J. Ecol. 71:945- 958. Wolfram, S. 1984. Universality and complexity in cellular automata. Physica 10D:l-35. Woolhouse, M. E. J. , Harmsen R. , Fahrig L. 1985. On succes- sion in a saxicolous lichen community. Lichenologist 17:167-172. Yarranton G. A. and Morrisson R. G. 1984. Spatial dynamic of a primary succession - a nucleation. J. Ecol. 62:417- 428. Received January 15, Revised March 10, 1992</page></plain_text>