<plain_text><page sequence="1">76 is described by Sir Everard Home. 'I'he ova are deposited upon its own shell; sometimes one only, sometimes several, contained in one chamber. I'he animal found in the Argonaut shell by Mr. Cranch, had de- posited eggs upon the lip of the shell; they were united by pedicles, like those of the Sepia octopus, and differed from those of the Helix ianthina, and other testaceous Vermes living in water, in having no camerated nidus, and in having a very large yolk to supply nourish- ment to the young animal when hatched; so that this animal, says Sir Everard Home, must be resolved into a species of Sepia; an animal which has no external shell, and which only uses the Argo- naut when it occasionally gets possession of one. Some naturalists not acquainted with comparative anatomy have thought they saw the Argonauta shell partly formed in these ova. The appearance they allude to is probably the unusually large yolk. Astronomical Observations and Experiments tending to investigate the local Arrangement of the Celestial Bodies in Space, and to determine the Extent aind Condition of the Milky Way. By Sir William Her- schel, Knt. Guelp. LL.D. F.R.S. Read June 19, 1817. [Phil. Trans. 1817, p. 302.] The construction of the heavens, in which the real place of every celestial object in space is to be determined, can only be delineated with precision when we have the situation of each heavenly body assigned in three dimensions, which, says the author, in the case of the visible universe, may be called longitude, latitude, and profun- dity. The angular positions of the stars given in astronomical cata- logues, and on globes and maps, may enable us to find them by the eye or telescope; but their distance remains unknown; and unless a proper method for obtaining the profundity of objects can be found, their longitude and latitude will not enable us to assign their local arrangement in space. The method of parallaxes has succeeded with regard to objects comparatively near. The parallax of the fixed stars has also been an object of attention; and although the investigation has hitcherto produced nothing satisfactory, it has given us a magnificent idea of the vast extent of the sidereal heavens, by showing that probably the whole diameter of the earth's orbit, at the distance of a star of the first magnitude, does not subtend an angle of more than a single second of a degree. To stars of a smaller size the parallactic method admits of no application. Sir William Herschel proceeds to consider the local situations of the stars, and proposes a standard by which their relative arrange- ment may be examined; that is, by comparing their distribution to a certain properly modified equality of scattering, in which it is not required either that the stars should be equidistant from each other, or that those of the same nominal magnitude should be equally distant from us. A certain equal portion of space is allotted to every star, so that we may thus calculate how mrany stars any given ex-</page><page sequence="2">/7 tent of space should contain. This arrangement is further explained by reference to an annexed diagram. Sir William Herschel next compares the order of magnitudes with the order of distances, the result of which is, that if the order of magnitudes could indicate the distance of the stars, it would denote at first a gradual, and then a very abrupt condensation of them; but that, considering the principle upon which the stars are classed, their arrangement into magnitudes can only apply to certain relative di- stances; and show that, taking the stars of each class one with an- other, those of the succeeding magnitudes are further from us than the stars of the preceding order. In the fourth and fifth sections of this paper, the means of ascer- taining the profundity or local situation of the celestial objects in space, and the equalization of star light are discussed; and these are succeeded by a series of observations on the extent of natural and telescopic vision, and their application to the probable arrange- ment of the heavenly bodies in space. This paper concludes with a series of observations on the extent and construction of the Milky Way; which, with his former obser- vations, the author is inclined to think will contain nearly all the general knowledge we can ever have of this magnificent collection of stars. Some Account of the Nests of the Java Swallow, and of the Glands that secrete the Mucus of which they are composed. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read June 26, 1817. [Phil. Trans. 1817, p. 332.] After noticing the various opinions which have been entertained concerning the materials of which the nests of the Java Swallow are composed, Sir Everard proceeds to examine the glandular structure of its cesophagus and stomach, as also the chemical characters of the substance forming the nest. He was chiefly led to this inquiry by the suggestion of Mr. Raffles, who was of opinion that the matter of the nest was brought up from the bird's stomach, and that the vio- lence of the effort was occasionally such as to be accompanied with blood, the stain of which is sometimes seen on the nests. On examining the gastric glands of the Java swallow with a com- mon magnifying glass, their orifices obviously differed from those of other birds, and of the common migrating swallow of England. The Java swallow is a constant inhabitant of the caverns of that island, and about twice the size of the common swallow. It builds two nests; one oblong and narrow for the male, the other wide and deep for the female and her eggs. The peculiarity of structure in the gastric glands consists in a membranous tube surrounding each of their ducts, which, after projecting into the gullet, splits into separate portions, like the petals of a flower. From the surface of these tubes the peculiar mucus for the formation of the nest is se- creted. Thus, says the author, the opinion which I have long</page></plain_text>