<plain_text><page sequence="1">Hospital Management IME 461 . . FINGER SPLINTS FOR AVIAN LEG FRACTURES Conco Aluma Foam Finger Splints are quite useful for external fixation of leg fractures and as a padded splint for radius-ulna fractures in raptors and larger birds. The splints are made of light weight aluminum with foam on one side and can be easily bent to conform to the bird's limb. I have used the 9 inch length, 3/4 inch width splint. They are available from Conco Medical Company, Bridgeport, CN 06610; Order # 850-009-34. Susan Wells, DVM New Orleans, LA IME 462 . ? EVALUATION OF GRAM SCALES A gram scale is indispensable to avian practice. I have used two digital models, both available from Wysong Medical Corp. (517-631 0009) . There are advantages and disadvantages to each. Model SA009 is a platform scale with a removable plastic basket. The read-out is clear with large digits. The scale has an automatic shut-off and a 1000 g capacity. The cost is $110. Model SA010 has only a platform but it is easier to attach a perch to this scale. The read-out is smaller and there is a manual shut-off (more battery wear). The scale has a greater capacity, however, (1999 g) and a lower cost ($89) . Small birds can be weighed by placing them in a paper bag. Cooperative parrots can be placed on a "T" perch attached to the platform. Uncooperative psittacines can be weighed in a plastic shoe box. Either scale can be zeroed to allow for perch or shoe box weight. Susan Wells, DVM New Orleans, LA IME 463 . . SMALL ANIMAL SUPPLIES ADAPTED TO AVIAN USE A canine vaginal speculum is useful as a mouth speculum for pet birds. Since it is stainless steel it can be stored in the examina tion room in a Chlorhexidine (Nolvasan-Fort Dodge) solution. Sponge forceps, with the loops hooked over the top and bottom beak can also be used to open up the mouth fairly wide in smaller birds for oral exams. For hand-feeding baby birds, the cannula tip of a Monoject 412 syringe can be cut off to the desired length and diameter.</page></plain_text>