<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 11: 9-26,1987 © Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, H- 1083 Budapest Application of Long Transects and Information Theoretical Functions to Pattern Detection I. Transects versus Isodiametric Sampling Units* Sándor Bartha and Ferenc Horváth Research Institute for Ecology and Botany, Hungarian Academy of Sciences, H-2163 Vácratót Abstract: The effectiveness of elongated and isodiametric sampling units to estimate information statistical functions was examined. Although elongated sampling units caused some distortion related to isodiametric quadrats, the ordering relations of charateristic maximum areas were similarly detected by both methods. Introduction This is the first paper of a series aimed to compare different vegetation patterns using a family of information theoretical models developed by Juhász-Nagy (1980). Whereas the usual methods ordinate or classify vegetational objects based on their va- riability, a more sensible description is possible if a "coenological state" is characteri- zed not only by texture but also by structure derived from the internal variability of vegetation stands. Juhász-Nagy's models define quantitative relationships among basic coenological phenomena (preference , diversity, and resemblance) and his space-dynamic approach utilizes facts of context-dependence (in this case: the dependence of our results on some sampling characteristics: plot size, plot shape, arrangement of plots, etc.) not as inherent errors of the sampling procedure but as useful information about characteristics of vegetation. Unfortunately, only a few rather methodically and methodologically oriented works have been accomplished with the model. Extensive analyses of models and their relations to a possible theory on supraindividual organization were carried out by Juhász-Nagy (1976, 1980, 1984, 1986). Among the few practical applications, Juhász- Nagy (1967a) presents some examples of the decomposition of resemblance structure in a wet meadow community ( Caricetum distantis). Another work was performed using characteristic volumes to describe spatial diversity processes in a hydrobiological * This paper was presented at the International Symposium on Numerical Syntaxonomy and Synecology held in Unovce, near Galanta, Czechoslovakia, on May 18-22. 1987</page><page sequence="2">10 Bartha and Horváth object (Dévai et al. 1971). Juhász-Nagy and Podani (1983) investigated the successive re-ordering of characteristic area-relations in different syndynamical situations. Despite the obvious advantages, these models require a rather hard and time- consuming sampling procedure in the field (requiring large sample size and sampling with increasing plot size or mapping in two dimensional grids). Our attempt was to connect the sophisticated data analytical methods of the models with a rapid field technique, the long transect sampling. Before any application we must examine how long transect sampling distorts the data structure and the functions calculated. Greig-Smith (1964) pointed out that as the length/width ratio increases, uncon- trolled edge effects can be introduced into the results. Hahn (1980) published some preliminary considerations about a theoretical possibility to correct these edge effects. Nosek (1976) analysed the influence of increasing quadrat size and successive elonga- tion of quadrat shape for a large repertoire of diversity functions used in ecology. He found inconsistent effects on the estimation of diversity functions. Podani (1982, 1984a) tested local distinctiveness, florula diversity and associatum functions under different sampling conditions. He examined the effect of quadrat shape near the maxima of characteristic functions and recognised that quadrats with low length/width ratio result in a more diverse sample than the long units, even if a fairly homogeneous point pattern was investigated. In the present paper the scope of the latter study is extended to a wider range of plot sizes and component functions of local distinctiveness, florula diversity and asso- ciatum are also analysed. Materials and Methods Case 1. Simulated patterns Simple two-dimensional patterns of individuals were simulated in a 60*60 grid with two types of dispersion and at three levels of abundance (Fig. 1). Three Poisson- distributed populations were created with decreasing abundance (900, 400 and 144 in- dividuals in the grid). Three aggregated populations were also simulated with Gaussi- an distribution around randomly distributed centres of clumps. The populations with aggregated pattern follow the same series of decreasing abundances (900, 400 and 144, respectively). Case 2. Field data y The two-dimensional pattern of individuals was mapped in a 5*5 m area divided into a 50*50 grid in a natural stand of a steppe community ( Salvio-Festucetum sulca - tae) near Albertirsa, Hungary. Thirty-seven species were recorded: the list and textural data for species are presented in Table 1. The long transects were created from the primary two-dimensional grids by a computerized sampling procedure (Podani 1987) using contagious quadrats, random directions and lengths (no. of units). Further computerized sampling was performed</page><page sequence="3">Application of long transects 1 1 Figure 1: Point pattern of six "species" simulated with different density and spatial distribution.</page><page sequence="4">12 Bartha and Horváth Table 1: List of species occurring in field map. Nomenclature follows Soó &amp; Jávorka (1951). Species Code Frequency Rel.Freq. 7. Festuca sulcata FES 1616 15.686 Carex praecox CAR 1403 13.619 Cytisus austriacus CYT 1337 12.978 Avenastrum pratense AVE 1192 11.' '571 Euphorbia pannonica EUP 889 8.629 Filipendula vulgaris FIL 730 7.086 Teucrium chamaedrys TEU 724 7.028 Galium verum GAL 354 3.436 Centaurea rhenana CEN 320 3.106 Viola ambigua VIO 249 2.417 Veronica spicata VSP 186 1.805 Achillea pannonica ACH 176 1.708 Thymus marschal 1 ianus THY 175 1.699 Pimpinella saxifraga PIM 135 1.310 Seseli annuum SES 128 1.242 Chrysopogon gryllus CHR 118 1.145 Plantago media PLA 92 0.893 Fragaria sp. FRA 73 0.709 Arrhenatherum ëlatius ARR 71 0.689 Koeleria cristata K0E 55 0.534 Coronilla varia COR 53 0.514 Dactylis glomerata DAC 33 0.320 Salvia nemorosa SAN 27 0.262 Salvia pratensis SAL 26 0.252 Astragalus onobrychis ASA 18 0.175 Asperula cynanchica ASP 18 0.175 Seseli varia SEV 16 0.155 Onobrychis arenaria ONB 11 0.107 Verbascum phoeniceum VER 9 0.087 Thalictrum minus THA 9 0.087 Stipa capillata STI 9 0.087 Lotus corniculatus LOT 9 0.087 Scabiosa ochroleuca SCA 8 0.078 Euphorbia virgata EUV 7 0.068 Arenaria serpy 1 1 if ol ia ARE 5 0.049 Prunella sp. PRU 3 0.029 Trifolium sp. TRI 2 0.019 TOTAL 10 286 100.000 7.</page><page sequence="5">Application of long transects 13 from the primary data sets. Isodiametric plots were taken from the grid data and elon- gated sampling units from long transects. From all data sets random sampling was per- formed with increasing plot size (increasing plot size is referred to in this article as a spatial process). Sample size was 450 in the case of simulated data and 300 for the field data. Data analyses Information statistical functions developed by Juhász-Nagy in the framework of a general diversity concept were used to describe the basic coenological phenomena (preference, diversity and resemblance). All the functions were calculated at increasing quadrat sizes (spatial process). Local distinctiveness [LD] Local distinctiveness, a heterogeneity measure, reflects the preference of species and is calculated according to the formula: s ~ LD= mH ([L]) = £2 mHi ~ , i = l where s is the number of species, m is sample size and mHi = mlogm - n¡logni -(m-ni) log(m-ni) is the local entropy of species i (present in ni of m sampling units). Simple florula diversity [FD] Simple florula diversity is expressed in terms of frequencies of the species com- binations in the sample: CO FD = mH(A,B S) = mlogm- fklogfk , k = l where fk is the frequency of the k-th species combination in the sample and 2s is the number of possible species combinations. Associatimi [A] Associatum is a resemblance measure estimating multiple association (interlocal dependence) in terms of contingency information: A = mî(À) = mH([L])-mH(A,B,...,S).</page><page sequence="6">14 Bartha and Horváth Figure 2. Characteristic functions for simulated data. SvmbolsiQ local distinctiveness (LD) from iso- diametric sampling; A(LD) from long transect ("linear") sampling; +florula diversity (FD) from iso- diametric sampling; X(FD) from long transect ("linear") sampling; Qassociatum (A) from isodiametric sampling; V(A) from long transect ("linear") sampling. The maxima of these functions over spatial processes were determined. The area corresponding to a given maximum is called the maximum area of the given function (Juhász-Nagy 1967b). The change of spatial rank orders of these characteristic maxima caused by different plot shapes was analysed. We ignored characteristic minima of these functions because our maps are rather small in size, causing considerable distor- tion of minimum areas. In addition to FD, LD and A, their additive components were also analysed. These decompositions provide more detailed information on the behaviour of FD, LD and A. We used local entropy functions mH as components of LD, and the frequency of the k-th species combination (the frequency of the k-th florula), fk, as components of FD. In the case of associatum, the correct decomposition methods suggested by</page><page sequence="7">Application of long transects 15 Juhász-Nagy (1984) were not used. Instead, the pairwise resemblance structures calcu- lated on the basis of chi-square tests were considered only. For the details of these methods, see Juhász-Nagy and Podani (1983). Several programs were developed by the authors to perform computerized sam- pling procedures. Program GRIDSIM was used to generate simulated patterns of arti- ficial populations in the grids. Program GRIDLIN creates long transects from grid data. Program GRIDSAM and LINSAM performs sampling with increasing plot sizes. SYN-TAX II. program INPR02 (Podani 1984b) was used for the calculation informa- tion statistical functions. Figure 3: Characteristic functions for the 15 most abundant species in the 'Salvio-Festucetum' com- munity. Symbols as in Fig.2.</page><page sequence="8">16 Bartha and Horváth Figure 4: Characteristic functions for all species in the ' Salvio-Festucetiim ' community. Symbols as in Fig.2. Results and Discussion Figs. 2-4 illustrate the effect of plot shape on the determination of characteristic areas. In the case of simulated data (Fig. 2) both very elongated quadrats and the iso- diametric quadrats indicate the same maxima for the characteristic functions. Zero as- sociatum refers to the pre-defined circumstances of simulation: all populations were created independently. The only difference in the detected pattern is that in the long transect case LD and FD reach their minima at smaller plot size than in the isodiame- tric situation. This effect makes the data structure slightly more homogeneous as com- pared with the isodiametric quadrats.</page><page sequence="9">Application of long transects 17 Figure 5: Comparison of changes in local entropy of species with HIGH abundance. A: + random, isodiametric sampling (R,I); □ random, long transect sampling (R,L); B: ^aggregated, isodiametric sampling (A, I); Oaggregated, long transect sampling (A,L).</page><page sequence="10">18 Bartha and Horváth Similar results are derived from the field data of the 15 most abundant species in the steppe-community (Fig. 3.) Both sampling procedures indicate the characteristic maximum area at 0.04 m plot size (-4.64 on log scale). The fact that all functions have their maxima at the same plot size suggests the existence of homogeneous pattern for the abundant species. Rather different estimates were obtained, however, Figure 6: Comparison of changes in local entropy of species with MEDIUM abundance. Symbols as in Figure 5.</page><page sequence="11">Application of long transects 19 if the rare species were also included (Fig. 4). Isodiametric quadrats gave maximum area between 0.09 and 0.16 m2 (-3.47 and -2.64, respectively) for FD, and between 0.64 and 0.81 m~ (-0.64 and-0.304) for LD and A. All maximum areas were found to be smaller with long transect sampling: 0.04 m2 (-2) for FD and A. Figure 7: Comparison of changes in local entropy of species with LOW abundance. Symbols as in Figure 5.</page><page sequence="12">20 Bartha and Horváth Despite this distortion, both sampling procedures revealed that FD has its maximum at smaller plot sizes than LD and A. This suggests a patchiness in the distri- bution of rare species. Note that these rare species with relative frequency less than 1% (Table 1) have a strong accidental effect in consequence of their rarity, regardless the sampling technique used. For a more detailed research on distortion effects recognized above, the basic functions were decomposed to their conponents. LD, FD and A reflect an avarage state of the community. However, using additive characteristics of these functions all the components (species or species combination characteristics) can be investigated separately. Local entropy functions are considered in Figs 5-7. Some simple trends are easy to recognize. Let X(i,j) be the individual maximum area of species X, i.e., the plot size belonging to the maximum of mH(X(i,j)), where Figure 8. Summary of ordering relations among characteristic areas belong to the maxima of local entropy of species.Q: X(R,I ),Q: X(A,I ),+: X(R,L),a: X(A,L). For example, X(A,L) means the indivi- dual maximum area of species with (A)ggregaled pattern and sampled by (L)ong transect method). For more information, see text.</page><page sequence="13">Application of long transects 21 r R if the pattern is random 1 A if the pattern is aggregated; r L if long transect j:=&lt; u I if isodiametric transect was used. Figure 9: Comparison of lhe spatial dynamics of some characteristic species combinations for random patterns. symbol sampling species combination ^ "linear" species 1,2,3 isodiametric species 1,2,3 4- "linear" species 1,2 X isodiametric species 1,2 □ "linear" species 1 A isodiametric species 1</page><page sequence="14">22 Bartha and Horváth Fig. 8. shows how X(i,j) is influenced by the abundance of species and sampling design. In the case of random pattern, quadrat shape did not influence the position of maxima, that is, X(R,I) = X(R,L) for all abundance values. The abundance relations of species with random simulated pattern are indicated by rank order X(R,j)900&lt; X(R,j)400&lt; X(R,j)i44 (double arrows in Fig. 8). The abundance relations of species with aggregated pattern are indicated by rank order X(A,j)9oo&lt; X(A,j)4oo&lt; X(A,j)i44 (broken and solid arrows, respectively in Fig. 8.). There is a shift in the position of individual maximum area estimated by long transect sampling X(A,L)&lt; X(A,I) at all abundances (dotted line in Fig. 8). Figure 10: Comparison of the spatial dynamics of some characteristic species combinations for aggre- gated patterns. symbol sampling species combination O "linear" species 4,5,6 V isodiametric species 4,5,6 -+- "linear" species 4,5 X isodiametric species 4,5 □ "linear" species 4 &amp; isodiametric species 4</page><page sequence="15">Application of long transects 23 Again, long transect sampling shows a less heterogeneous pattern or indicates higher abundance than isodiametric sampling techniques. Despite this distortion, long transect sampling indicates differences between species with the same abundance but different pattern (random vs. aggregated patterns). Relations X(R,L) &lt; X(A,L) hold just like X(R,I) &lt; X(A,I). We can conclude that long transect and isodiametric sampling reveal the same rank order or local entropy functions, but the spatial dynamics of these functions re- cognised is different. The alternative sampling methods gave similar trends but indi- cated different positions for maximum areas. This effect is negligible only in the case of random patterns. Figure 11. Comparison of lhe chi-square plexus graphs of species for field data. Species codes are listed in Table 1. Edges indicate significant chi values at the p &lt; 0.05 level, only POSITIVE ASSO- CIATIONS are shown.</page><page sequence="16">24 Bartha and Horválh For t,he detailed analyses of FD the spatial dynamics of florulas (species combi- nations), components of FD, were considered, The frequency of florulas (fk) was plotted against plot size. To give a more contrasting picture about the effects of sam- pling methods, the simulated data were divided into two subsets, both consisting of three species with three levels of abundance (900, 400 and 144). Species pattern was random in the first and aggregated in the second subset. The spatial dynamics of the three most abundant florulas is presented in Figs 9- 10. For random pattern (Fig. 9) no difference was indicated between long transects and isodiametric sampling units. There is a distortion in the case of the florulas of ag- gregated species (frequencies of florulas reach their maxima at smaller plot size) but the spatial ordering of florulas is not affected (Fig. 10). We can conclude that main trends are fairly well-represented by both sampling methods but the differences found in spatial dynamics stress that spatial processes must not be neglected in analyses of vegetation pattern. A similar conclusion obtained from analyses of decomposed FD and LD arises the question whether changes caused by different sampling methods in the spatial dy- namics of LD and FD are parallel phenomena or not. In the latter case, the associa- tum might be badly affected and several artefacts can be generated. Because of the simplicity of simulated data structure (spatial independence among species was ensured, consequently the associatum is zero), we used field data to analyse the distortion of resemblance structure. A very sophisticated decomposition of the total resemblance structure is possible using the diacretic models of the model family developed by Juhász-Nagy ( 1984). Considering the complexity of this method, a simpler technique allowing a quick insight into the resemblance structure was used instead. Pairwise chi-square tests were performed as a simple but rather compatible method with the same elements of the diacretic models of Juhász-Nagy. The results are presented in form of plexus graphs in Fig. 1 1. For simplicity, only positive associa- tions are shown. To create the plexus structure, significant chi values (p &lt; 0.5 ) were used derived from all steps of spatial processes. Fig. 1 1 shows the comparison of the resemblance structures of the 15 most important species under different sampling conditions (linear vs. isodiametric). A high level of similarity between the two resemblance struc- tures may be recognized, the same coalitions are depicted in both cases, although some differences still exist. More edges occur in the case of linear sampling, some edges are removed and the two opposite coalitions become connected. The differences require a more elaborated analysis of possible non-parallel shifts in dynamics of pre- ference and diversity model-functions during spatial processes. Summary and Conclusion A complete analysis of small-scale vegetation structure requires a time-consu- ming sampling procedure in the field (including mapping and spatial processes) which is hard to accomplish in many cases. Our attempt was to connect a rapid field technique, long transect sampling (de- tection of simple presence of species in verv long transects subdivided into contiguous</page><page sequence="17">Application of long transects 25 quadrats) with a sophisticated data analysis method and to compare results obtained by linear and the usual isodiametric sampling units. Simulated and field data were analysed to reveal possible distortions caused by long transect sampling in comparison with results obtained by the standard isodiame- tric sampling units. It was found that 1. Long transect sampling yields a more homogeneous data structure than isodia- metric quadrats. 2 The estimates are not affected when species have random distribution. 3. Species with aggregated distribution seem slightly more regularly dispersed or more abundant when long transect sampling is used (possible artefact) but the diffe- rent degree of aggregation is indicated fairly well. The degree of distortion depends on plot size. 4. Within the range of quadrat sizes for which the estimation is said to be optimal (near the maxima of the basic functions LD, FD and A), the distortion is neg- ligible. 5. The spatial dynamics of florulas of randomly distributed species is not affected by the long transect sampling. 6. There is a distortion for the florulas of aggregated species (frequencies of flo- rulas reach their maxima at smaller plot size) but the spatial rank order of maxima is not affected. 7. The estimates of basic functions (LD, FD and A) and the characteristic maxima were correct for the most important species in the case of field data, but were less precise for the rare species. 8. The resemblance structure of species obtained by different sampling methods is slightly different; indeed the same species coalitions are depicted by both strategies. 9. In general, linear sampling methods appear useful for a rapid pilot study of small-scale vegetation structure but the small distortions found requires further an- alyses of possible non-parallel shifts in spatial dynamics of preference and diversity model-functions. Acknowledgements The authors are grateful to G. Fekete, E. Moinar and K. Virágh for their help in field work, to P. Juliász-Nagy and J. Podani for suggestions and discussions. Many thanks are due to J. Podani for his computer programme. References Dévai, I. , K. Horváth and P. Juhász-Nagy 1971. Some problems of model building in synbiologv. Part 1. Spatial diversiy process of the binary type in a simple situa- tion. Ann. Univ. Sci. Budapest sectio biol 13:19-32 Greig-Smith, P. 1964. Quantitative Plant Ecology. Butterworths, London Juhász-Nagy, P. 1967a. On associations among plant populations. Multiple and partial assotiation: a new approach. Acta. Biol. Debr. 5:43-56.</page><page sequence="18">26 Bartha and Horváth Juhász-Nagy, P. 1967b. On some 'characteristic areas' of plant community stands. Proc. Colloq. Inf. Theory, Bolyai Math. Soc., Debrecen pp. 269-282. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1976. Spatial dependence of plant populations. I. Equivalence analysis (an outline for a new model). Acta Bot. Hung 22:61-78. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1980. A cônológia koegzisztenciális szerkezeteinek modellezése. Doc- toral Thesis (Manuscript, in Hungarian), Budapest. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1984. Spatial dependence of plant populations. II. A family of a new models. Acta Bot. Hung. 30:363-402. Juhász-Nagy, P. 1986. Egy operativ ôkológia hiánya, szükséglete és feladatai. Akadé- miai Kiadó, Budapest. Juhász-Nagy, P. and J. Podani. 1983. Information theory methods for the study of spatial processes and succession. Vegetatio 51:129-140. Hahn, I. 1980. A faj-egyed diverzitás becslésének néhány mintavételi problémája 1. El- méleti megfontolások. Bot. Kozlem. 67:59-65. Nosek, J.N. 1976. Comparative analysis of some diversity functions under different conditions of sampling in sandy meadow. Acta Bot. Hung. 22:415-436. Podani, J. 1982. Spatial processes in the Analysis of Vegetation. PhD. Thesis, Univer- sity of Western Ontario. National Library of Canada Microfiche No. TC 56124. Podani, J. 1984a. Analysis of mapped and simulated vegetation patterns by means of computerized sampling techniques. Acta Bot. Hung 30:403-425. Podani, J. 1984b. SYN-TAX II. Computer programs for data analysis in ecology and systematics. Abstracta Botanica 8:73-94. Podani, J. 1987. Computerized sampling in vegetation studies. Coenoses 2:9-18. Soó, R. and S. Jávorka 1951. A Magyar Nôvényvilág Kézikônyve. I-II. (Manual of the Hungarian Flora). Akadémiai Kiadó, Budapest. (Received October 1, 1987).</page></plain_text>