<plain_text><page sequence="1">STATE DIAGNOSTIC LABORATORY REPORTS The State Diagnostic Laboratories in the United States are divided into four regions for purposes of reporting the types of diseases diagnosed in their laboratory. Each state submits a monthly report which is combined with others from its region and sent to the Associa tion of Avian Pathologists. The annual report is eventually printed in Avian Diseases, but due to the enormous task of tabulating all of this data and the lack of manpower, the report is out-dated by the time it is printed. Perhaps, if you are interested in what diseases are being found through the Diagnostic Laboratory in your state, you could contact them directly to see if a copy of their Avian Disease Report is avail able .</page><page sequence="2">The gram negative organisms such as E. coli, Enterobacter sp., Klebsiellat Proteus, Pseudomonas, Citrobacter, etc. are all potential pathogens, but as long as the normal homeostasis of the bird and a normal gram positive rod compliment in the gastrointestinal tract are maintained, then the organisms do not appear to be disease-pro due ing. The above mentioned bacteria have been found in both healthy and sick psittacines and mynahs. Stress will increase- their numbers and careful evaluation must be made as to their status as being pathogenic or nonpathogenic before administration of antibiotics, which may stress the bird further. Stress may also include oral antibiotic treatment. This treat ment depletes most bacteria (good and bad) and in addition, can partially strip the inner mucosal lining of the gut. Included in this mucosal lining are the secretory immunoglobulins (IgA) which serve to protect from invasion of opportunistic microorganisms onto the mucosal lining irtLl post mortem spread through the intestinal wall. It would seem evident that most birds will have developed a protective immunological barrier in the gut against these oppor tunists as long as the system is not overwhelmed by numerous quantities or destruction of the lining. E. coli is also found in healthy and sick birds. This appears to indicate an opportunistic character of some strains of E. coli. There are at least 3 serotypes of E. coli which are direct pathogens in poultry. It remains to be determined which of the 250+serotypes of E. coli are direct pathogens to psittacines and those being opportunists. In addition to this is the question where the fine line separates the state of commensalism and an opportunistic patho gen and be able to identify it. Salmonella is naturally looked upon as a pathogen.</page></plain_text>