<plain_text><page sequence="1">Avion Con/ervotion New/ By Robert GrOSkm Bird Body Language Of great interest to all creatures on earth is what their next meal will be and where it will come from. In the 2000-3000 nest colonies of Cliff Swallows, a unique form of information exchange has been observed. Swallows returning to the nest site empty-mouthed would look around for other birds that displayed a characteristic rocking motion, full beak, and rapid flight away from the nest. Unsuccessful foragers would then follow those birds to the source of food. Because their food sources are constantly changing as the insect swarms rapidly move to different locations, it is necessary for Cliff Swallows to exploit these opportunities. What makes this behavior significant is that, aside from insects such as bees, this is the first nonprimate vertebrate to have developed an "information center" for the communication of information that cannot be seen at the same time. Pressure Needed The rapid decline of the world's tropical forest is having a profound effect on global health and on the increasing rate of species' extinction. Some of the greatest causes of habitat destruction are the massive development projects that have taken place in many of the Third World countries. Although intended to bring economic strength to these nations, they ultimately prove to be short-sighted and environmentally disastrous. So far one means to combat this type of destruction has been to exert pressure on the multi-national banks, especially the World Bank, to assess the effects on the environment before financing any of these multi-billion dollar projects. Although recent statements by leading bank officials indicate an appreciation of these problems, minimal policy changes have been seen. Individuals wishing more information should contact the Environmental Defense Fund which has spearheaded these efforts. When is Blue not Blue? Two optical researchers recently reported that analysis of feathers from Blue Jays confirmed the long held belief that the blue coloring of animals and birds comes not from blue pigment but from a process called "scattering." Alveolar cells in the barbs of the feathers, which are smaller than the wave length of light, are responsible for this effect. When light hits these cells, some of the white color is suppressed and other colors are scattered, with the resulting predominance of one color. Yellow color, on the other hand, is the result of absorption and reflection. Green color on parrots results from the combination of absorption (yellow) and scattering (blue). Most other greens and some purples are due to scattering alone. Irridescence, as in peacock tail feathers, results from interference of several reflected light waves.</page></plain_text>