<plain_text><page sequence="1">June 8, 1837. WILLIAM LAWRENCE, Esq., V.P., in the Chair. Robert Bigsby, Esq., George Edward Frere, Esq., and Captain Joseph Ellison Portlock, R.E., were elected Fellows of the Society. A paper was in part read, entitled " Observations on the minute structure of the higher forms of Polypi, with observations on their classification." By Arthur Farre, M.6. Communicated by Richard Owen, Esq., F.R.S. June 15, 1837. FRANCIS BAILY, Esq., V.P. and Treasurer, in the Chair. James F. W. Johnston, Esq., A.M., was elected a Fellow of the Society. The following papers were then read, viz.:</page><page sequence="2">i7d il Observations on the minute structure of some of the higher forms of Polypi, with views of a more natural arrangement of the class." By Arthur Farre, M.B., Lecturer on Comparative Anatomy at St. Bartholomew's Hospital. Communicated by Richard Owen, Esq., F.R.S., was resumed and concluded. After a short account of the labours of preceding naturalists in that department of zoology which comprises the various kinds of polypes, and of the different characters on which they have founded the classification of these animals, the author proceeds to the state? ment of his own observations on several species which had not been previously investigated with sufficient minuteness and care. Two ofthe species described he believes tobe entirely new, and he has accordingly given them the names of Bowerbankia densa, and Lagenella repens. The other species which are the subject ofthe author's investigation, are Vesicularia spinosa, Valkeria cuscuta, Alcyonidium diaphanum, Membranipora pilosa, and Notania lori- culata. He then discusses the principles on which the classification of this tribe of zoophytes should be founded, and proposes on these principles to give the name of Ciliobrachiata to the whole group of polypes characterised by the possession of ciliated tentacula, and a free alimentary canal with two orifices : this group again he divides into two suhordinate groups, namely, the IJydriform and the Acti- niform, or Zoanlhiform polypes. Under the title of Nudibrachiata he proposes to comprehend all those polypes which partake of the nature ofthe hydra, and whose tentacula are unprovided with cilia, corresponding to the Anihozoa of Ehrenberg.</page></plain_text>