<plain_text><page sequence="1">IN MY EXPERIENCE. IME 38 QUESTIONS ASKED OF DR. SUSAN CLUBB DURING THE AVIAN EDUCATIONAL MEETING IN ATLANTA (A.A.H.A.) (To our knowledge, Dr. Clubb is the only veterinarian in the country employed full time by an importer.) WHAT IS YOUR RECOMMENDED TREATMENT FOR "COLDS" IN AMAZONS? DR. CLUBB: Ideally, bacterial and fungal cultures should be started prior to the initiation of therapy. My initial antibiotic of choice for systemic therapy is tylosin (Tylan 50 by Elanco) (5 mg for a 300-500 gm bird IM oid for 5-7 days). Injacom 100 (Vit. A and Do) by Roche is given at the rate of .1 cc once weekly for a 300-500 gm bird. Nares should be opened if obstructed and flushed daily with a mixture of saline and an antibiotic (as determined by sensitivity). A syringe without needle is held tightly over the nostril and 1 to 1 1/2 cc of solution is rapidly flushed through. Gentocin ophthalmic solution (Schering) may be dropped into the nostrils of birds which will not tolerate flushing, or in mild cases. Nebulization therapy is helpful in many cases. HOW DO YOU TREAT EXTERNAL PARASITES? DR. CLUBB: I routinely dust flocks for external parasites with 5$ Sevin Dust (Carbaryl) using a garden duster. Birds are dusted from below and the dust settles down onto the back. According to recent reports Sevin Dust may be carcinogenic. Pyrethrum sprays are effective against lice, however the wings must be spread and the axillary area thoroughly sprayed. "No Pest Strips" are effective for the control of red mites. Strips must be protected from chewing birds and should not hang over food and water bowls. DO YOU SEE DIARRHEA ASSOCIATED WITH GENTOCIN THERAPY? DR. CLUBB: The "diarrhea" associated with gentamycin therapy is usually polyuria. Gentamycin causes an increase in Uric Acid transport in reptiles and may also be responsible for the polyuria seen in birds. Dr. Robert Altman reports an increase in Serum Uric Acid levels which usually begins on the 3rd to 4th day of therapy. These levels usually do not exceed 20 mg/dl and return to normal after cessation of therapy. Hopefully more precise information on this subject will be available soon. HOW DO YOU FEEL ABOUT LACTOBACILLUS AFTER ANTIBIOTIC THERAPY? DR. CLUBB: I believe lactobacillus therapy is helpful in birds following antibiotic therapy. Although the full spectrum of normal flora is not replaced, these gram positive bacteria give needed competition to the overgrowth of gram negative bacteria and fungi. WHAT HAVE YOU FOUND TO BE SUCCESSFUL IN TREATING POX? DR. CLUBB: 1. Injacom 100 - .lcc / 300-500 gm bird once weekly. 2. Tylosin and gentamycin 5 nig each oid/ 500 gm, given 5 days on and 2 days off. Antibiotic therapy may be necessary for 2-3 weeks. Lactobacillus is provided on 2 days off and after recovery.</page><page sequence="2">3. Eyes are vashed with Mercurichrome eye wash (1 part mercurichrome and 4 parts eye wash solution) followed by chloramphenicol ophthalmic solution. If scabs axe present the eye must be opened just enough to apply medication to the cornea. White caseous material which collects under the lids must be removed daily. 4. Nasal flushing is required in birds with sinusitis. 5- Soft foods should be offered and tube feeding may be required. 6. Antifungal therapy may be needed. WHAT IS YOUR RECOMMENDED THERAPY FOR CANDIDIASIS? DR, CLUBB: 1. Nystatin (Mycostatin Oral Suspension) works on contact and is more effective if given often. I use 1 cc per os/500 gm bird bid. Mycostatin may also be added to water for more continuous therapy. 2. Mycostatin 20 (Nystatin feed premix) is difficult to add to seeds or water due to the diatomaceous earth base. It may be used with soft foods. 3. Chlorhexadine (Nolvasan) can be used as a flock treatment. I use lOcc/gallon of water and it is well accepted at this concentration. 4. Levamisole,Vitamin A and lactobacillus axe helpful adjuncts to therapy. 5. Oral lesions may respond to swabbing with a 10% solu tion of Lugols Iodine solution. 6. Refractory cases may respond to Amphoteracin Cream (Fulvicin) or Methylene Blue applied to oral lesions. 7. Calcium proprionate may be used in soaked corn or other moist feeds to prevent fungal overgrowth (1 gram/50 lbs of feed). ****************** Starting with this issue, we are aiming for regional input for the bulk of the articles under "In My Experience. . " Members of the Avian Society of the Southern California Veterinary Medical Associa tion (Walter Rosskopf, Jr., Chr., Richard Woerpel, Susan Yanoff, and Keven Flammer) accepted the responsibility for this issue. The Chicago area veterinarians (Ted Lafeber, Chr.) have offered to contribute to the Sept. I98I issue, the Northern California group (Steve Schuchman, Chr.) will take Dec. 1981, and veterinarians in the Northeast part of the country (Bob Altman, Chr.) will contribute to the March, 1982 Newsletter. Of course, we will continue to accept items from other members, but these groups will make sure there's plenty of reading material. With this kind of enthusiasm, we may be able to publish more often! IME 39 HEMOGRAMS OF FOUR INFECTIOUS DISEASES SEEN IN SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (Introduction edited for length) Working with Veterinary Reference Laboratory, our three veterin arian practice has done over 10,000 hematolgic work-ups in a 2 1/2 year period. We are compiling our data on normals for all avian (mostly psittacine) species. As we have become more familiar with blood panels, we see that certain conditions often have a typical hemogram.</page><page sequence="3">INCLUSION BODY HEPATITIS This disease is extremely common in our birds here. Hematologically, it is undistinguishable from Pacheco's disease. The disease is especi ally common in cockatoos and cockatiels and seems to be, in the majority of cases, to be recurrent in nature. Also, some of the cockatoos develop adrenal insufficiency as a result of repeated attacks, a condition we have been able to study in depth. The main clinical pathology findings are low white counts with relative lymphocytosis and increased SGOT and LDH. If one follows the disease and serially repeats the blood counts, the white count and liver enzymes will often return to normal only to become abnormal at some future date. These birds can go on like this for years. Cocka tiels follow the same pattern which can last for months in an abnormal state. FIGURE 1: HEMOGRAM OF MEDIUM SULFUR CRESTED COCKATOO WITH CHRONIC INCLUSION BODY HEPATITIS 10/15/79 2/21/80 3/13/80 3/17/80 3/20/80 4/21/80 8/15/80 9/27/80 WBC 2,400 11,500 &lt;1,000 &lt;1,000 4,000 3,000 &lt;1,000 4,000 Heterophils 43 28 06 w 2 23 19 3 11 28 Lymphocytes 50 69 ra?-5 jjj ^ 76 52 ??l0 70 Monocytes 7 2 Erol oh- 0 21 0 0 Eosinophils 0 0 G3 m? 0 ?S? 0 Basophils 0 1 hO ?8 1 1^4 2 Blood 03 * ? Parasites NPS NPS NPS NPS NPS NPS NPS NPS RBC 2.3 2.3 2.7 2.0 PCV 33 40 41 32 32 45 44 44 Platelets normal normal normal normal normal normal normal normal Tot.Protein 4.4 3.4 4.1 4.4 4.2 2.7 3-2 Glucose 248 202 90 192 250 176 SGOT 124 212 690 652 424 134 448 LDH 254 334 818 578 &gt;800 Creatinine 0.2 &lt;0.2 &lt;0.2 &lt;0.2 Uric Acid 5.0 5-1 12.3 9-5 5.6 Calcium 13-4 9.2 12.4 12.4 T-4 1.3 0.8 Baseline Cortisol &lt;0.1 ACTH Cortisol Stim. 30 min. &lt; 0.1 ACTH Cortisol (1 hr.) &lt;0.1 ACTH Cortisol (90 Mins.) &lt;0.1 = less than NPS = No parasites seen &gt; = greater than</page><page sequence="4">Despite our efforts and endocrine support therapy, the bird died 12-6-80. Final diagnosis was Inclusion Body Hepatitis and Adrenal Cortical Cellular Degeneration. Note that during episodes of the dis ease the white cells were practically non-existent. These birds often die during an acute episode. AVIAN TUBERCULOSIS We have followed 7 cases of Psittacine TB in 3 years, showing that this disease is rare but still a threat. Typical hemogram shows high WBC (non-responsive to antibiotics), high SGOT and anemia. We saw large nodules in the lungs of one amazon parrot but X-rays were uninformative in most cases. FIGURE 2: HEMOGRAM OF BLUE HEADED PIONUS PARROT WITH AVIAN TUBERCULOSIS 7/24/80 7/29/80 8/5/80 8/14/80 8/20/80 9/4/80 WBC 27i000 22,000 26,000 26,400 37,300 22,500 Heterophils 74 81 87 74 72 86 Lymphocytes 18 17 13 24 20 10 Monocytes 0 0 0 2 5 2 Eosinophils 3 0 0 0 0 1 Basophils 5 2 0 0 3 1 Blood Parasites NPS NPS NPS NPS NPS NPS PCV 37 40 Platelets normal normal normal normal normal normal Tot. Protein 3.3 {RBC 2_g ^ 2.8 Glucose 158 SGOT 262 802 LDH 506 536 Creatinine 0.2 Uric Acid 7-8 Calcium 10.7 On 9-8-80 the bird died. Most tissues were diffusely infiltrated with Mycobacteria. X-rays were totally unhelpful in this case. The bird seemed to have good days and bad but ate until the end. Weight loss was progressive throughout the course of the disease (210 g. to 175-8 g.) No onein the family was positive on tuberculin testing. The owners had possessed the bird one year before the onset of symptoms, suggesting that the bird had carried the disease until something set it off (same history in several of our TB birds). PSITTACOSIS Typically, in this disease, the WBC is high, the PCV is low, the SGOT is high, and, in many cases, the total protein is high. If the adrenals are involved, the glucose will be very low. The WBC will often stay high for several hemograms, even with the use of tetracycline.</page><page sequence="5">FIGURE 3: HEMOGRAM OF A PARAKEET ON THE DAY IT DIED OF PSITTACOSIS WBC: 18, - 20,000 PCV: 32 (typical) Bandlets: 50 (Very unusual) Platelets? Normal Heterophils* 14 Tot. Protein: 2.9 (usually high) Monocytes: 0 SGOT: 3,600 (typical) Eosinophils: 0 Glucose: 14 (Fourteen is Basophils: 0 /*?-, corr?-} (Adrenal compromise and liver disease) EXOTIC VELOGENIC VISCEROTROPIC NEWCASTLE DISEASE For the past 2 months, Southern California has been threatened by an outbreak of VVND. It has been traced to young Yellow Naped Amazon parrots smuggled in from Mexico. I present these hemograms so that the readers can hopefully profit from the experience. Bird 1 died the day after the exam; bird 2 died 4 days later, and bird 3 has been asympto matic to date. Bird 3 has been swabbed 3 times and has remained nega tive as have the other exposed birds in the owner's household. Remember that the incubation period for WND can be up to 4-00 days! The State plans to continually swab these birds for over a year. FIGURE 4: HEMOGRAM OF VVND IN THREE 8-12 WEEK OLD JUVENILE YELLOW NAPED AMAZON PARROTS Weight 0 329-5 g 408.0 g 413.0 g WBC x 10-* 4-6 8-10 8-10 Heterophils 74 (many 45 75 toxic) Lymphocytes 23 55 21 Monocytes 3 0 0 Eosinophils 0 0 2 Basophils 0 0 2 (PCV: Blood Parasites NPS NPS NPS Bird 2: 43 Platelets normal increased normal Bird 3: 37) Total Protein 3*0 2.5 Glucose 80 226 SGOT 294 152 K 5.3 4.5 Na 136 149 Comments Dead next Died Asymptomatic day 4 days to date (2 mos. later) later Diagnosis on the two that died was WND. Both showed interstitial pneumonitis, splenomegaly (one with necrotizing splenitis), erythrophagocy tosis in the liver (apparently common in the disease), and acute hemolytic anemia. Grossly, the bird I saw necropsied looked like a Psittacosis bird with an enlarged spleen, cloudy air sacs, etc. but was hemorrhagic throughout and had a blood clot adjacent to its heart. -- Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM IME 40 ASCARIDS IN AUSTRALIAN PARAKEETS Ascarids are commonly found in Australian parakeets (eg. rosellas, Barabands, Princess, Many-colored and Crimson-winged parakeets). Pathogenicity is questionable but I have seen three cases of intes tinal obstruction. Ascarids are easily eliminated from other psittacines</page><page sequence="6">by treatment with levamisole in the drinking water but most Australian parakeets are desert species and consume little if any free water. In previous water consumption studies, medicated water was refused for 5 days by these birds. Based on fecal flotation examinations approximately 10-20% of the 280 keets in our collection were shedding ascarid ova prior to treatment. Each bird was treated by instilling 15 mg/kg- levamisole phosphate (Ripercol, Professional Veterinary Pharmaceuticals) into the crop with a steel feeding needle followed by a second treatment 3 weeks later. Care was taken to thoroughly clean the flight cages after treatment. Fecal exams over the following 6 months did not reveal a single ascarid ova, suggesting successful treatment. ? Keven Flammer, DVM IME 41 TAPEWORMS IN AUSTRALIAN FINCHES I have not yet identified the species of helminth but hexocanth eggs are passed in the feces. Tremendous masses of the worms may be found in the large and small intestines, causing sevens dilatation and complete obstruction. Tapeworms have been recovered from several species of Parrot, Hex Grass, Gouldian, Society and Owl finches. The lay literature recommends treatment by adding niclosamide to the drinking water but this drug is virtually insoluble in water. I conducted a field trial with niclosamide in owl finches. Eighty-four owl finches were administered 2 mg0 (100-200 mg/kg.) of niclosamide (Yomesan) suspended in water directly into the crop with a 5 french feeding tube. The drug was kept in suspension by constant vortexing right up to the time of administration. Treatment in some birds was repeated 14 days later. No ill effects were ob served and many birds passed degraded tapeworm segments in the feces. I thought I had effected a cure, but follow-up fecals and necrop sies over a three month period revealed infestation was still present. Evidently the niclosamide caused sufficient gut irritation to cause dislodgement of the proglottids but not the scolex. Currently I am conducting dose-toxicity trials in Society finches with the new injectable cestocide praziquantel (Droncit, Haver-Lockhart). Later, if safety is established, efficacy will be tested in a number of Australian finch species. ? Keven Flammer, DVM IME 42 CANDIDIASIS IN COCKATIEL NESTLINGS A common problem in cockatiel breeding operations responsible for high mortality in 0-2 week old nestlings is candidiasis of the crop and esophagus. This disease is often associated with concurrent infections, especially chlamydiosis and collibacillosis. Adults may be asymptomatic carriers and infect the nestlings when feeding. Diagnosis is easily made by inserting a cotton .swab into the crop and smearing the contents onto a slide. Gram staining will show large, oval, gram positive budding yeast organisms. Turkish towel like plaques may be present in the esophagus and crop at necropsy. Approximately 2000 adult cockatiels were treated in the following manner:</page><page sequence="7">The birds were fed a cooked mash containing equal parts chicken scratch, rice and millet seed. To 15 pounds of this mash 38.2 grams of Myco 20 (a nystatin premix from Squibb containing 20 grams nystatin activity per pound) was added and fed as the sole food source for 9 days. Prior to treatment yeast organisms could be recovered from most adults. Virtually no yeast was found on random post treatment crop swabbing and examination at necropsy over a 3 month period. ? Keven Flammer, DVM IME 43 RENAL DISEASE IN A LOVEBIRD An eight month old, 45 gm. blue-faced love bird was presented with a six to seven day history of a decreased appetite and tendency to seek heat. The bird was one of a pair the owner had had for one month. Its mate, according to the owner, was fine. Physical exam revealed a thin, depressed bird. Its feathers were ruffled and its eyes were partially closed. The mate was bright, alert and active. There were two types of droppings: some of normal consistency with white urates, and some that were excessively watery and had yellow urates. Blood was taken for a complete blood count and chemistries. (Table 1) Abnormalities included a marked leukocytosis, an elevated creatinine value, and a slightly increased SGOT level. The bird was treated with ampicillin (10 mg IM sid) and Lactated Ringer's solution (1 cc SQ bid). Improvement was seen by the next day. A second blood sample taken five days after the initiation of treatment showed a decrease in the white blood cell count, but it was still above normal. According to the owner the bird was normal, but ampicillin injections were continued for five days. Blood taken at the end of the second treatment period showed all values back to normal. All droppings were of normal consistency and the urates were white. The patient was clinically normal. As illustrated by this case, it is very important to continue treatment until blood values are normal. The avian patient can look remarkably well even with severe changes in the blood picture. If treatment is stopped too soon, as may be the case if based on clinical appearance alone, a serious relapse may occur. It is usually good practice to continue treatment with an antibiotic in the water for seven to ten days past the point when blood values are normal. Table 1 4/14 4/20 4/28 WBC (xlo3) 25-30 12-14 8-10 H (%) 65 55 45 L " 32 39 48 M " 0 0 7 E " 2 0 0 B " 1 6 0 T.P. 2.8 - 4.5 SGOT 388 - 344 Creat. 0.8 - 0.4 -- Susan R. Yanoff, DVM</page><page sequence="8">IME 44 "CAGED BIRDS CANNOT ALWAYS BE CURED WITH ANTIBIOTICS" AN OVERVIEW OF THE MOST COMMON DISEASE ENTITIES AFFECTING CAGED BIRDS (Ed. note: Edited for length. My apologies to the author.) Caged birds suffer from a myriad of disease problems, only some of which possess a bacterial etiology. Therefore, it is naive to assume that every sick bird presented to a veterinarian will benefit from the administration of an antibiotic. Metabolic disease, neoplasia, toxicities, and trauma are major categories of illness among exotic birds and should always be considered in a differential diagnosis. Caged birds are additionally plagued by chlamydial, fungal, viral, and parasitic diseases. Of the bacterial pathogens of caged birds that will respond to antibiotics, the members of the Enterobacteriaceae (E. coli, Klebsiella sp., Enterobacter sp., Proteus sp., Salmonella sp., etc.) Pseudomonas sp., and Pastuerella sp. are probably the most common and troublesome. Very little is known about the role of anaerobic bacteria in the etiopathogenesis of disease among exotic birds. Bacteria may be primary or secondary with respect to the patho genesis of disease in the avian patient. If bacteria is suspect, treatment programs are, of necessity, empirical until a culture and sensitivity can be completed, at which time the antibiotic may be changed. Possible culture specimens from the living patient include: ocular, choanal slit and pharyngeal (oral), tracheal, skin, abdominal fluid, cloacal, feather tip (freshly pulled from follicle), and abscess (location will vary). The chlamydial agent of Psittacosis, a very common possibility in newly imported or pet shop boarded birds, responds only to specific antibiotics, tetracycline or Chloromycetin, or both drugs simultaneously. Mycoplasma sp. is capable of producing respiratory disease in caged birds. It is a fastidious agent with very specific culture requirements. One must, therefore, indicate to the microbiology lab that Mycoplasma sp. is a suspect and request special culture methods. This agent is best handled with tylocine. Pseudomonas sp. is a very common bacterial pathogen among exotic birds, but ordinary antibiotics cannot deal successfully with it. Therefore, one must turn to gentamycin, carbenicillin, or tobramycin as therapeutic agents. Mycobacterium sp., the agent of tuberculosis, is refractory to all of the conventional antibiotics. The disease produces granuloma tous lesions within the liver and intestinal tract (and other organs if advanced). It has a chronic, debilitating course and should always be included in the differential diagnosis when the patient has this type of illness and when many different antibiotics have been used unsuccessfully. The disease is difficult to diagnose ante mortem and it is one disease that should not be treated because of public health implications. Then there are those etiologic agents of infectious disease that will not respond to any antibiotic: fungal, viral and parasitic. The two (2) major pathogenic fungi among caged birds are Aspergillus fumigatus and Candida albicans. Aspergillosis is a respiratory disease with systemic complications. Candidiasis may be topical (ocular, sinus, etc.) or cause lesions within the crop.</page><page sequence="9">Viral agents of significance among caged birds include VVND (velogenic, viscerotropic Newcastle disease), the avian pox viruses, parrot herpes viruses (Pacheco's Parrot Disease and Inclusion Body Hepatitis), the avian influenza viruses? and coronavirus. Each virus is very distinct with regards to its pathogenesis and, in some cases, its host(s) . Parasitic diseases can be divided into those that affect the integumentary system and those that involve one or more internal organs. Cnemidocoptes pilae, the scaly face mite, is almost an exclusive parasite of the budgie, although I have observed it to parasitize an occasional love bird and cockatiel. This mite affects only the non-feathered portions of the bird and the lesions are pathognomonic. Hemoparasites are common. Hemoproteus sp., actually a group of Protozoan blood parasites, are frequently noted on blood smears from certain species of cockatoo, macaw, as well as the Half-Moon Parrot, African Grey Parrot, and an occasional Mynah Bird. Micro filaria are often observed on blood smears from certain species of cockatoo and represent the offspring of adult nematodes whose exact location within the body of the host is unknown. The respiratory system of caged birds may be parasitized by insect, helminth, or protozoan. Sternostoma tracheacolum, the air sac mite, is found in large numbers within the air sacs of canaries and Lady Gouldian Finches most frequently, although budgies may be similarly parasitized. Gastrointestinal parasitism among caged birds may be the result of protozoan, nematode, or cestode parasites. Intestinal nematodes of significance include Capillaria sp. ("Hairworms" or "Threadworms") and Ascaridia sp. (ascarids). Metabolic diseases are quite common among exotic birds and can be divided into two (2) major categories: nutritional and endocrine. Malnourishment plays a major role in the pathogenesis of disease in most caged birds. This is usually the result of ignorance on the part of the client and poor husbandry. Being nutritionally deficient in one or more nutrients contributes significantly to the susceptibility of that individual to disease. Endocrine diseases inclue hypothryoidism, diabetes mellitis, iron-storage disease of Mynah Birds, and a relatively new entity my partner, Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., and I have recently described, involving inflammation of the adrenal glands seen most frequently in certain cockatoo species. Neoplasia is very common among budgies and relatively rare among the other psittacines. In fact, any lump or bump palpable on a budgie is a tumor until proven otherwise. The tissue of origin of the neoplasm may be external or internal. Intra-abdominal tumors must be differentiated from non-neoplastic intra-abdominal masses and/or fluid accumulation. The incidence of solid tissue neoplasms in the larger psittacines is very low while neoplasms of the blood are relatively more common. Intoxication is not an uncommon problem among caged birds with unsupervised freedom and usually results from ingestion of toxic substances, lead poisoning being the number one heavy metal intoxication.</page><page sequence="10">Trauma represents the final category of major etiologic agents encountered in the practice of avian medicine. Trauma is usually secondary to contact with a wall or closed window during free flight in the house, dog cat attack, injury received from another bird, rough handling by the client, leg band problems, etc. Unfortunately, the exact cause is not always known, but treatment is always symptomatic. ? Richard W. Woerpel, DVM IMS 45 . .If birds die despite therapy always try to have them autopsied. This helps correlate clinical pathology data and will help you know what disease states are present in your area. Many County or State Labs will not charge for this service as a public health policy. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM IME 46 . . In our experience, injectable antibiotics are much easier to use than oral drops. For antibiotic therapy, we try to use 2 compatible drugs, one in the water and one by injection. Once the problem is under control, the water drug is continued at least another week. Clients are willing and able to give injections if necessary. I find this much safer than relying on a client to not choke his bird with an oral antibiotic (and much faster also). ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM IME 47 . . Don't be overly anxious to surgically repair fractures in birds. Most fractures can be handled with slings and coaptation splints unless absolute perfection is desired. With hunting birds that have to fly perfectly, its a different story. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM IME 48 . . Corneal ulcers (not caused by pox virus) respond well to suturing the lids together. This way the bird cannot injure itself while the medications are used. I use 4-0 silk and take stitches out in 7 days. -- Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM IME 49 . . The little scabs seen on the mouths of sick parakeets are usually bacterial granulomas from overwhelming disease processes. ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM IME 50 . . If you see Amazon parrots (particularly Lilac crowned and Mexican Red Heads) with yellow on their heads to make them look like Double Yellow Headed Amazons, you are probably dealing with illegal birds. The Mexicans can sell these birds for more money as "good talkers". (I have even seen Half-moon parrots with dyed yellow heads! ) Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM IME 51 . . Beware of chronic eye problems in Blue-fronted Amazons. Many of these have suffered permanent damage from pox virus and will never be normal (anterior synechiae, keratitis sicca, chronic ulcers, etc.) ? Walter J. Rosskopf, Jr., DVM **# ***************</page><page sequence="11">IME 52 . . Repair of luxation of the gastrocnemius tendon in ostriches is possible if immediate reposition and repair is effected. Two ostriches ages 5 and 10 weeks were recently acquired from different sources and were fed high manganese and other vitamin sup plements . The birds were presented approximately one week apart with acute lateral luxation of the gastrocnemius tendon. The medial condyle of the tibiotarsus had also torn through the skin and the joint was exposed in both cases. Ketamire 25mg/kg was used to immobolize the birds. The tendon was repositioned between the condyles and the skin laceration sutured. Four weeks later the same leg on the younger bird luxated in a similar fashion. All injuries were repaired within one hour or less of onset. All injuries occurred spontaneously, one while the zookeeper was watching the birds. No trauma was involved. To date (six months later) both birds are able to walk well. The bird with the recurrent injury walks with digits rotated outward. The other bird has enlarged tibiotarsal-tarsometatarsal joint but walks without any difficulty. -- Robert Groskin, DVM (Ed. Note: According to Sherry Branch, Curator of Birds at Lion Country Safari in Florida, this type of luxation was common with young ostriches last year and seemed to be related to growing too fast and putting on too much body weight before the legs could support it. She has prevented episodes this year by reducing the caloric intake and increasing exercise. Instead of providing bowls of feed (where they previously stood and consumed for long periods of time), she throws a smaller amount of food (turkey pellets) out over the ground where they have to scratch for it. A larger con finement area has been provided. Three times a day, dark greens (spinach, escarole, etc.) are offered, sprinkled with Vionate. The birds (from 5 days of age and up) are "run" for 15 minutes twice each day for additional exercise.) IME 53 It is my understanding that Tobramycin (Nebein-Lily) is the drug of choice for Pseudomonas in human medicine (99% Tobra mycin vs. 95% gentamicin). Mg per mg, Tobramycin has up to 3x the pseudomonicidal activity of gentamicin. In Pseudomonas septicemias, (often preceded clinically by pharyngeal overgrowth due to poor husbandry and nutrition) parenteral carbenicillin (Geopen-Roerig), when sensitive, plus Tobramycin is the most efficacious treatment for Pseudomonas. Pharmacokinetics of Tobramycin are identical to gentamicin. The half life of carbenicillin is short and parenteral doses in mammals vary widely. -- Alan Mo Fudge, DVM IME 54 Doxycycline suspension (Vibramycin- Pfizer) is an efficacious, though not approved, treatment for psittacosis and doxycycline-tetracvcline sensitive bacteria. Dosage is 2.5 mg PO bid in an amazon (400 g). -- Alan M. Fudge, DVM The California Veterinarian (4/1981) recently published a very complete discussion of "Psittacosis in Pet Birds" by Scott E. McDonald, DVM and Edmond V. Bayer, DVM, MPVM.</page><page sequence="12">IME 55 I have found that I can safely anesthetize all small birds by using a cotton face mask impregnated with metafane and larger birds with a small animal mask using halothane and a vaporizer. Birds put down with this procedure must be watched closely for depth of anesthesia but it works well and they revive quickly when the mask is removed. R. Dean Axelson, DVM. IME 56 . . I treat all sick birds with a multiple vitamin mineral mixture in an aqueous form added to their water, along with whatever medicine is needed. I find a high percentage of cage birds are on a poor diet. These birds are then maintained on this supplement permanently and their diet improved. -- R. Dean Axelson, DVM IME 57 B-D Microtainer Brand Capillary Blood Serum Separator tubes can be used to collect and separate blood samples from birds for maximum usable serum yield. The system is composed of a unique collector, a plastic tube with inert barrier material and a red plug. When the desired amount of blood has been collected, the collector is removed from the tube and replaced by the red plug, providing protection from contamination, evaporation and spillage. The stoppered tube containing clotted blood is spun in a high-speed microcentrifuge, causing the inert barrier material to seek the serum-clot interface and form a barrier physically separating serum from the cell clot. The B-D company has done parallel clinical comparisons of samples collected with this system and other micro-collection devices and has found no clinically significant differences in results for the most common determinations. Since this is designed for human capillary blood collection, their own expressed limitations suggest chemistry values may be different from venous serum, however this should not affect results taken from veins of birds. Studies are being done to see if the inert barrier interferes with Psittacosis evaluation and other avian specific tests. -- Barry Mitzner, DVM ************************ PSITTACOSIS TESTS According to Dr. Jerry Grimes, the Microbiology Department at Texas A&amp;M University is prepared to do Complement-Fixation tests for Psittacosis. Since they use microtechniques, less than .lcc of serum is required for each test. Samples should be collected and separated as aseptically as possible, cooled and sent immediately with ice packs, or frozen and shipped with dry ice. Each serology test is $5. They are also doing Psittacosis isolation tests from fecal samples for $8 each. Apparently the transport media for cloacal swabs used in the surveillance kits in California is not totally satisfactory for long distance transport, therefore they recommend that the fecal samples be sent frozen with dry ice. For more information or requests for Submission Forms, write to 1 Dr. Jerry Grimes, Dept. of Vet. Microbiology and Parasitology, Texas A&amp;M University, College Station, TX 77843</page></plain_text>