<plain_text><page sequence="1">-41 FROM THE A.A.Z.V. MEETING IME 225 . . BEAK REPAIR IN A SOUTH AMERICAN BLACK EAGLE I was involved in a case of acute trauma in a mature female South American black eagle. In a flying accident she detached the entire beak structure and broke off approximately 70% of the beak itself. The eagle was in shock and hemorrhaging from the wound when she was brought to the hospital. Under anesthesia, it became apparent that both of the side walls of the remaining beak had less than a centimeter of bonded beak substance between them. They were both very loose. Just above the nares at the center of growth there was a good deal of soft tissue trauma. The entire area was conservatively debrided, the hemorrhage was stopped with pressure and minimal electrocautery. Care was taken not to further traumatize the tissues that rest beneath the thin wall of the remaining beak. The soft tissue formerly within the beak was covered with a type of "liquid bandage", a zinc oxide/ eugenol ointment commonly used in the treatment of exposed dental tissues. This material was applied over the entire wound area and, essentially established a hermetic seal for the beak bed inside the remaining beak and protected the soft tissue from the harsher chemicals contained within the beak repair material. The second stage of treatment was to establish sufficient "anchorage" for the repair material. This was done with pins placed through the beak wall, as well as bonded to the outside of the beak. The outer surface of the beak was roughened with a coarse grinding stone to ensure a physical, as well as a chemical bond of the repair material. The epoxy-resin type repair material held the pins in symmetri cal positions around the beak to ensure both mechnical support as well as a chemical bond. Although the soft tissue portion of the beak bed just above the nares was gently debrided, there was not much else that could be done except let it granulate in. The composite resin material was fashioned into an artificial prothesis covering for the beak. The palate area was restructured as well, with an area for soft tissue drainage. Both lateral walls of the beak were solidly bonded together in the globular mass of material. This composite material mass was contoured and trimmed such that the mandible could close properly. The intent was to protect the beak during the period of self-regeneration and to manipulate the remaining wall of the beak as little as possible in order not to discourage reattachment. The bird was returned to its flight enclosure and managed to eat quite well without regard for the prosthesis. The intended result was to encourage the beak to grow underneath the prosthesis, which it did, and the appliance eventually loosened and fell off within 4-5 months. The repair of the beak itself was fairly complete at about \ its overall length, however, there was still quite a good sized defect that grew out from underneath the beak bed, between the nares on the crest of the beak. One of the essential ingredients to the success of this case was that at fairly regular intervals - every 4-6 months - the eagle was immobilized and the beak recontoured. The irregularities that developed in the growing pattern were eliminated. A slow speed grinding wheel was used to minimize heat generation. Care was taken to keep the beak moist with a stream of air so that the heat generated from the grinding wheel would not burn the soft</page><page sequence="2">-42 tissues underneath the beak, causing edema and necrosis. As time passed, the beak grew out, although it was badly deformed. At one point the mandible was quite a bit longer inan anterior/posterior relationship than the maxilla. The eagle's traditional hook would never to be able to form without regular follow-up care. She would have had a permanently deformed beak. The mandible had been trimmed back almost to the "quick" . It was easy to see this pink area before it was actuall exposed. Four or five months later, the side walls of the beak had grown down and enclosed the mandible such that lateral mobility was quite limited. This too was corrected. Gradually, over a period of about a year and a half, the beak returned to fairly normal configuration. Now the beak looks quite normal and functions in a completely normal fashion. The eagle was dismissed from follow-up treatment after twenty months of post operative care. There are a variety of dental materials available for this type of beak repair all of which have unique characteristics (different setting times, different physical properties, some are thin and flowing, others are thicker and harder, some are more opaque, some have greater strength, some have larger particle size, etc.). These materials are readily available. It's reasonable for the veterinarian to be familiar with all these variations, because of the great diversity and lack of similarity from one type of beak injury to another. ? David A. Fagan, D.D.S. IME 226 . . BLOOD PARASITES IN PSITTACINE BIRDS Blood parasites are often found in psittacine birds, especially cockatoos. The importance of these parasites however is poorly understood. A survey was made of the prevalence of three blood parasites, Haemoproteus, Trypanosomes, and microfilaria, in asymptomatic newly imported psittacines. We examined 273 psittacine birds of 25 species for parasites in peripheral blood. Blood was collected from the jugular vein or the brachial vein. Venipuncture was made using a 25 ga. needle and a heparinized tuberculin syringe. Standard plain capillary tubes were filled with blood immediately and centrifuged for 2-3 minutes. The capillary tubes were microscopically examined immediately. The interface between the buffy coat cell layer and the plasma was examined under 40X magnification for the presence of motility. Microfilaria and trypanosomes were detected by this test. They were fixed by breaking the capillary tube at the cell plasma interface and making a standard blood smear of the interface area. Haemoproteus were detected by examination of a standard blood smear. Smears were stained in modified Wrights Giemsa stain (Diff-Quick). Haemoproteus were found to be very common in cockatoos, but rare in other psittacine species tested. Infections varied from only one gametocyte per slide to two per oil emersion field. Packed Cell Volumes were compared between infected and non-infected birds and were not apparently different. Most references reviewed attached little pathological significance to the presence of Haemoproteus. It should be noted, however, that Haemoproteus may act as an opportunist. In two outbreaks of disease in two flocks of cockatoos, we initially noted a higher than usual rate of Haemoproteus. Subsequently, the diagnosis of Newcastle Disease was made in one flock and psittacosis in the other. We have</page><page sequence="3">-43 also seen a high incidence of parasitism associated with cockatoos suffering from a feather loss syndrome which we feel is also stress related. Microfilaria were the most common blood parasite found in this survey but were only slightly more prevalent than Haemopro teus. Adult filarial worms which were removed from the air sacs of a Moluccan cockatoo were identified as Paraprocta sp. Due to the variation in size of microfilaria which have been observed, there appear to be several species of filaria which infect psitta cine s. We discovered the presence of Trypanosomes in psittacines relatively recently and therefore don't have a large data base on the prevalence of this parasite. Trypanosomes have only been found in two species of macaws, predominately in Hyacinth macaws. All of these birds were recently imported from Bolivia. No signs of clinical illness were observed in affected birds other than low body weight. This was felt to be due to the difficulty of adapting this species to a captive diet rather than to the Trypanosome s. A practical treatment regimen has not been established, nor is treatment felt to be warranted for these parasites. However, we do feel that large numbers of Haemoproteus, and perhaps micro filaria, may indicate a physical compromise such as excessive stress, immunosuppression or the presence of an underlying disease condition. ? Susan L. Clubb, D.V.M. Diane Cramra, AHT</page></plain_text>