<plain_text><page sequence="1">In My experience... Guidelines to Consider in Making an Avian Diagnosis A random, haphazard approach to avian clinical problems is no longer acceptable. New scientific information plus years of clinical experience have made appropriate diagnostic protocols available to the avian practitioner. A thorough physical examination and standardized laboratory testing provide the most practical and useful information. The Implements of Diagnosis Several tests have been shown to contribute significant information relative to avian diseases. Some details of selected diagnostic protocols are discussed elsewhere in this issue. Gram's Stain: The Gram's staining procedure, applied with a consistent technique, can be employed as a basic part of any diagnostic panel. It's main application has been in evaluating the gram-staining bacterial flora of the lower intestinal tract from fresh fecal specimens. It may also be used to evaluate swabs of the choana, samples of ex?date or lesions. Correlation of Gram's stain results with clinical signs is essential. Fecal Examination: A gross observation of the droppings is part of the protocol for all birds presented. A direct exam of fresh feces appears to be the most effective means of screening for intestinal parasites, fat content, or the presence of fresh blood. A saline mount and/or iodine or trichrome stains may reveal eggs, trophozoites, or cysts indicative of parasite burden. Microbiology: Cultures may indicate the involvement of bacteria, fungi, chlamydia, viruses, or mycoplasma. Because bacteria appear to be involved in many of the clinical signs seen in pet birds, bacterial culturing and antibiotic sensitivity testing are frequently employed by avian practitioners. Samples from the choana, cloaca, sinuses, air sacs, trachea and other locations may yield pathogenic bacteria, if the collection technique ensures that samples represent the system being investigated, rather than transient contaminents. More significant gastrointestinal culture results appear to be obtained with a carefully collected cloacal swab than with a fecal sample. The most important aspect of culturing is interpreting and correlating the results with other diagnostic data. The laboratory reports only what existed in vitro; it is crucial that the veterinarian use all information collected to conclude the nature of a problem. Employing only one parameter to direct the entire course of a clinical case is considered near-sighted and careless. Hematology: Information from a blood sample may include total white cell count, differential, packed cell volume, total protein, the presence of microfilaria, lipemia, the presence of red cell parasites, and other red cell parameters. Because blood can usually be collected at the rate of 1 I cc per 100 g body weight, obtaining sufficient samples from most patients is not a problem. The reader is referred to Preparing Hematology Specimens in this issue for further information. Blood Chemistry: The application of blood chemistry results to avian medicine continues to be investigated. Updated information on reference values and the significance of avian chemistry results are presented elsewhere in this issue (see Avian Chemistries). Serology: The use of serology is confined to those few diseases for which tests have been developed, e.g. chlamydiosis, aspergillosis, papovavirus. Seriologic tests are under development for reovirus and Pacheco's disease. Cytology: Cytology, or the identification of cells from stained smears of tissues, blood or other components may be used to expand the database (see Cytologie Smear Preparation). With cytology, lesions may be classified (e.g., stage of inflammation, infectious components, neoplastic elements). A variety of stains (Gram's acid-fast, trichrome, Macchiavello's) differentiate specific organisms, however, information obtained must be interpreted in light of the entire pathologic condition. Radiology: Because avian patients frequently manifest only vague external clinical signs, radiology may be the most useful single procedure in localizing the major organ system(s) involved in an illness, especially for those birds I with clinical signs of suspected VOL 1 NO 3 1987 117</page><page sequence="2">In My experience... ^HHMiHiMHMHaHHiiHii^H?i^HHii^^^Hi fractures, neoplasia, foreign bodies, or egg-binding; feather-picking and self-mutilation; non-responsive upper and lower respiratory cases, and gastrointestinal disturbances. The air-filled compartments of avian anatomy render the bird an ideal radiographie subject with appropriate technique. Proper positioning of the patient is critical for subsequent evaluation of radiographs. Advanced techniques such as barium contrast gastroenterology allow further pursuit of specific problems. Necropsy: Common necropsy techniques combine many of the previously described tests with direct visualization of the entire avian specimen. It is often advantageous to submit an intact carcass to a capable diagnostic lab for the purpose of complete necropsy, histopathology, and agent isolation (See Diagnostic Considerations for Necropsy). In the face of potentially large outbreaks it is wise to sacrifice individuals in the early clinical stages of a disease in order to determine a diagnosis and protect others at risk in the collection. Occasionally, a definite diagnosis is made only after necropsy. Other Diagnostic Tests: Exploratory laparoscopy with modern endoscopie equipment can provide access to internal organs for examination and biopsy without the trauma of a laparotomy. Avian urinalysis has only recently been examined for its contribution to renal profiling. Electrocardiographic procedures are being employed both for diagnosis and monitoring (See Indications for Avian ECG). The Diagnostic Process When a veterinarian encounters an avian patient showing signs of illness, his primary goal is to make the bird well. The fact is, acquiring a specific name for the illness is not the priority. As Pollock states in Anatomy of a Diagnosis (Compendium on Continuing Education 7 (8): 621-628), "Diagnosis is not an end in itself. It is useful only insofar as it assists in selecting appropriate therapy or predicting a clinical course". Obviously the first step is to perform a complete physical examination of the presenting patient and to listen carefully for any clues in the owner's description of the history. Establishing a comprehensive routine helps to insure consistency and minimize the possibility of overlooking subtle abnormalities. By determining which organ systems appear to be involved in the disease, subsequent laboratory work can be directed appropriately. In arriving at a differential diagnosis, the practitioner's thought process depends on a pre-existing knowledge of diseases and their clinical manifestations, many of which are species-specific (see Conditions and Syndromes Clinically Associated with Species of Birds). Laboratory methods can be used to narrow down the list of differentials with the goal of arriving at a definitive diagnosis. The results of initial tests will confirm or rule out the original hypotheses and direct further testing. This has been recognized as the "hypothetico-deductive" method of diagnosis. The danger in this process is that a disease excluded from the original list of differentials may never achieve consideration, when in fact it may be the true cause of the illness. Pollock continues, "Premature closure on a limited number of problems is an important source of diagnostic error." It is important to refrain from making a diagnosis until sufficient evidence justifies doing so. This becomes especially true in avian medicine. Because the majority of avian diseases display similar clinical signs (e.g., depression, anorexia, "fluffed" appearance), rarely are there enough distinctions in clinical signs at initial presentation to allow the formulation of a definite diagnosis. The severity of the patient's condition and the time required to obtain certain lab results may require that logical treatment be initiated before a diagnosis has been confirmed. Once conclusions are drawn and therapy is in progress, the patient's response is closely monitored; positive or negative changes in its condition may affect the diagnosis. The veterinarian must be prepared to review clinical signs, repeat lab work, and modify his conclusions in order to arrive at an accurate diagnosis and therapy. If a specific named disease does not arise, a veterinarian should not inadvertently exclude himself from being able to deduce the pathophysiologic process involved and initiate beneficial treatment. Overall, appropriate treatment is the result of an accurate diagnosis. Occasionally, the diagnosis itself is determined by the patient's response to treatment. Once a veterinarian has become experienced in using established laboratory tests to investigate an avian illness, he can apply them on an individual basis to each case that he encounters. (The Fall, 1987 issue of A A V Today will provide specific examples of developing diagnostic protocols.) ? Don Harris, DVM, Miami, Florida 118 AAV TODAY</page></plain_text>