<plain_text><page sequence="1">339 ively two hours before and two hours after the same hours of 6 and 18. The extreme inequality, or the amount of lunar variation measured from one extreme elongation to the other, is about 28" of arc at Toronto, 20" at Hobarton, and 11"t at St. Helena. The resolved portion of the terrestrial magnetic force which acts in the horizontal direction, and is opposed to any disturbing influence, is approximately 3*54 at Toronto, 4-51 at Hobarton, and 5'57 at St. Helena. November 24, 1853. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. The Earl of Harrowby was elected. Captain Inglefield, R.N., was admitted into the Society. The following gentlemen were elected Auditors of the Treasurer's Accounts on the part of the Society:-Capt. FitzRoy, Mr. Grove, Mr. Phillips, The Rev. Baden Powell, Mr. Wheatstone. The following extract of a letter from Lieut. Gilliss, U.S.N. to Colonel Sabine, R.A., was read:- Washington, 12 Sept. 1853. Lieut. Mackai returned to the United States in April, having made his magnetical observations successfully at all the elevations and at distances of 100 miles, entirely across the Pampas. Soon after leaving Mendoza he was thrown from his horse, breaking his barometer and so injuring his chronometer, that he has neither the longitudes of his magnetical stations nor barometric profile of the country. Being desirous to make his work complete, he volunteered to retrace his ground, and left the United States for the purpose more than a month ago, taking with him the declinometer and dip-circle, two Bunten's barometers, an apparatus for determining altitudes from the boiling- point, and some smaller instruments. Conveyance of the unifilar would have required another mule. Cursory inspection of the observations already made afforded evi. dence of their reliability, and as repetition would have involved many hours' detention at each station, it was not considered essen- tial to cumber him. Should the Argentine provinces have become sufficiently quiet, he will first cross the Andes at the Planchan Pass, lat. 350 20t, next at the Partillo (the most elevated) Pass, lat. 33? 40', and finally at the Cumbre and Uspalata Pass, in lat. 32? 50', where observations have already been made. As he will remain at Santiago only a short time, I look for him home during February next. His and all the magnetical observations will then be discussed, and the volume be ready for press by the close of 1854. Those on meteorology are very far advanced. The astronomical observations will fill three volumes, one of which (Mars and Venus) will be ready about the same time as the mag- netical and meterological volume; the zones not until two years later. 24*</page><page sequence="2">340 My report, embracing those of Lieut. Mackai and the naturalists, with the maps, plans, and drawings, will probably be the first pub- lished; and should Congress extend its usual liberality to my pro- positions, all the volumes will be presented to the world in a creditable manner. A paper was also read, entitled " On the Typical Forms of the large Secreting Organs of the Human Body." By Thomas H. Silvester, M.D. Communicated by Thomas Bell, Esq., Sec. U.S. Received Nov. 11, 1853. The author in this paper offers some observations on the large secreting organs of the human body, namely,- The lungs, The liver, The kidney, The stomach, The intestines, and The developments connected with reproduction. He observes that there are great obstacles to an attempt to re- duce them to a uniform type, but that further observation reveals a typical uniformity, in adaptation to special purposes, unequalled in the rest of the human ceconomy. The greatest hindrance to the discovery of this law of formation has been the habit of regarding a single element of the glandular organ as the whole and not a mere part of the glandular apparatus; for instance, the ovary has been described as the ovuliferous gland, although in reality the latter consists of the ovary, the Fallopian tubes, the uterus, and the vagina: also the lung has been said to be a gland, meaning by this expres- sion the secreting portion; whereas the lung-gland is composed of the vesicular structure, the excretory ducts, the bronchi, larynx, thyroid body, and even the nasal passages. The aim of the author has been to discover the constant elements of the glandular system and to compare them together in the several organs. A secreting gland is described as a more or less developed fold of mucous membrane, or even a plain surface- -in its simplest form a follicle; but in the organs to be described it is a highly complicated apparatus, composed of many parts, each possessing a peculiar func- tion. It is an unvarying characteristic of these structures that the elements of which they are composed always bear the same relation to each other in position. An accompanying diagram exhibited the type of a perfect gland, constituted of five elements and an ap- pendage. 1. The secreting element ............ Red. 2. The excretory element ................... Blue. 3. The receptacle element . . ................ Yellow, 4. The cervix with its glandular appendage .... Purple. 5. The efferent duct.. ................... Green. Sketches of the several glands of the human body accompanied the Japer, coloured in the same manner, so that the corresponding parts might be seen at a glance. The elements are seldom wanting,</page></plain_text>