<plain_text><page sequence="1">76 1'6tude des grands phenomenes de la physique du globe. On peut reconnaitre, des a present, que le nombre des stations necessaires pour etablir la loi de continuite est insuffisant, surtout dans toute l'etendue de l'Asie. June 5, 1851. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. The Annual Meeting for the election of Fellows was held this day. The Statutes for the election of Fellows having been read, Dr. Roget and Mr. Spence were, with the consent of the Society, ap- pointed Scrutators. The votes of the Fellows present having been collected, the fol- lowing gentlemen were declared duly elected:- Charles Cardale Babington, Esq. AugustusWilliam Hofmann, Esq. Thomas Snow Beck, M.D. Thomas Henry Huxley, Esq. Charles James Fox Bun bury, Esq. William Edmond Logan, Esq. George T. Doo, Esc. James Paget, Esq. Edward B. Eastwick, Esq. George Gabriel Stokes, Esq. Captain Charles M. Elliot. William Thomson, Esq. Captain Robert FitzRoy, R.N. Augustus V. Waller, M.D. John Russell Hind, Esq. The Society then adjourned to the 19th of June. June 19, 1851. The EARL OF ROSSE, President, in the Chair. The following gentlemen were admitted into the Society: Charles Cardale Babington, Esq. Captain Robert Fitz-Roy, R.N. Thomas Snow Beck, M.D. Thomas Henry Huxley, Esq. Edward B. Eastwick, Esq. William Edmond Logan, Esq. Captain Charles M. Elliot. George Gabriel Stokes, Esq. His Grace the Duke of Argyll was balloted for, and elected a Fellow of the Society. The following papers were then read:- 1. " Researches in Symbolical Physics. On the Translation of a Directed Magnitude as Symbolised by a Product. The Principles of Statics established symbolically." By the Rev. M. O'Brien, M.A., late Fellow of Caius College, Cambridge, and Professor of Natural Philosophy and Astronomy in King's College, London. Communi- cated by W. A. Miller, M.D., F.R.S. &amp;c. Received April 10, 1851. In this communication the author (starting from the well-known</page><page sequence="2">77 theorem, that two sides of a triangle are equivalent to the third, when direction, as well as magnitude, is taken into account) proposes an elementary step in symbolization which consists in representing the Translation of a Directed Magnitude by a Product. Any magnitude which is drawn or points in a particular direction, such as a force, a velocity, a displacement, or any of those geometrical or physical quantities which we exhibit on paper by arrows, he calls a directed magnitude. By the translation of such a magnitude he means the removal of it from one position in space to another without change of direction. U representing any directed magnitude and u any distance, the translation of U to any parallel position in space, in such wise that every point or element of U is caused to describe the distance uz, is termed the translation of U along u. This translation consists generally of two distinct changes, one the lateral shifting of the line of' direction of U, and the other the motion of U along its line of direction. The former is called the trans- verse effect, the latter the longitudinal effect of the translation of U along u. Both these effects are shown to be products of U and u; the transverse effect is represented by uU, and the longitudinal by u.U, inserting a dot between the factors in the latter for the sake of distinction. The author then goes on to apply the principles established to the proof of the Parallelogram of Forces, and the determination of the effect of any set of forces on a rigid body. In doing this a remark- able symbolization of the point of application, as well as the direc- tion and magnitude of a force, is obtained, namely, that the expres- sion (1 +u)U represents a force U acting at a distance u from the origin. The principles of statics are deduced with remarkable facility from the symbolical representation of the translation of a force along a given distance. 2. " On an Air-Engine." By James Prescott Joule, F.R.S. &amp;c. Received May 13, 1851. The air-engine described in this paper consists of a pump by which air is compressed into a heated receiver; and a cylinder, through which the air passes again into the atmosphere. The dif- ference between the work evolved by the cylinder and that absorbed by the pump, constitutes the work evolved by the engine on the whole. Two tables are given; the first of which contains the pres- sure, temperature and work absorbed, for various stages of the compression of a given volume of air. The second table gives the theoretical duty of the air-engine described, worked at various pres- sures and temperatures. The temperature recommended to be adopted in practice is as little below the red heat as possible, which would involve the consumption of only about one-third the amount of fuel consumed by the best steam-engines at present constructed.</page></plain_text>