<plain_text><page sequence="1">Surgical Repair of Crop Injuries Greg J. Harrison, DVM, Lake Worth, Florida The most common crop injuries I see are in young birds being hand- fed. These most often result from scalding of the crop due to improper temperature of hand-feeding formulas (e.g., in excess of body temperature - 110 oF), or from trauma caused by penetration of the feeding instrument. Failure to thoroughly stir and test the homogeneous temperature of a formula following microwave heating is often incriminated in crop burns. Although neonatal crop tissue is more vulnerable to injury because of its fragility, adult birds Figure 1 may require crop repair following trauma inflicted from the outside (e.g., attack by another bird or animal, impact trauma), foreign body ingestion or from improper force feeding. The biggest problem in surgically resolving these cases is in diagnosing them early enough. If scalding damage is severe, a necrotic patch may begin to develop on the outside surface of the skin. In some cases, the necrosed tissue will actually open up to the outside so that food will fall out when the youngsters are fed. Those cases have a relatively good chance of survival following treatment because the owner is likely to notice the symptoms early. Internal crop injuries may present simply as "sick birds" showing lethargy, fluffing up, and other generalized symptoms. If the crop Figure 2 wall has been penetrated, food may collect between the esophagus and the skin. This condition may remain undetected for several feedings, or may be misdiagnosed as crop stasis. Often these birds are significantly compromised before treatment is sought. Therapy should include detoxification with intravenous fluids, lactulose, antibiotics, subcutaneous debridement and drainage, and possible placement of a tube directly into the proventriculus for feeding before surgical repair is attempted. When the patient has been determined to be surgically fit, a Figure 3 slow dissection of necrotic tissue must be done. Frequently, in cases which have ulcerated to the outside, the subcutaneous tissues, esophagus and skin have granulated into a single layer. The surgeon must debride and remove all granulation tissue, including any that may extend up and down the neck area (e.g., around the jugular vein or trachea) and separate the layers. Fresh edges of tissue must be available for suture in both the skin and esophageal tissues (Fig. 1-2). The crop is sutured first with split thickness inverting suture using 6-0 to 8-0 nylon or silk and appropriately-sized atraumatic needles (Fig. 3) The skin is then closed in a standard manner. If significant surgical invasion of subcutaneous tissue was required, we will insert a penrose drain tube prior to closure and flush the affected area with peroxide for several days post operative. Low levels of systemic antibiotics such as ampicillin (Polyflex - 0.2 mg/gm IM b.i.d. for 3-5 days) may be given. VOL. 1 NO. 2 1987 63</page></plain_text>