<plain_text><page sequence="1">82 From these experiments uncorrected for ellipse, we have,- Exp. 6. 8. On N.E. and S.W. line l =l+13` 0Oinonehour. 7. 9. On N.W. and S.E. line 1 0'66+11' 10 088 I have since made a great variety of experiments with this apparatus, which, notwithstanding the theoiretical and practical disadvantage of working with so short a pendulum, I hope to render accurately effective, so that the angular deviation of the pendulum-plane may become an ordinary and easy experiment. It should, however, be tried in a glass case, and probably in vacuo. 4. " Note on instantaneous Photographic Images." By H. F. Talbot, Esq., F.R.S. &amp;c. "Having recently met with a photographic process of great sensi- bility, I was desirous of trying whether it were possible to obtain a truly instantaneous representation of an object in motion. The ex- periment was conducted in the following manner. A printed paper was fixed upon a circular disc, which was then made to revolve on its axis as rapidly as possible. When it had attained its greatest velocity, an electric battery, kindly placed at my disposal by Mr. Faraday, was discharged in front of the disc, lighting it up with a momentary flash. A camera containing a very sensitive plate of glass had been placed in a suitable position, and on opening this after the discharge, an image was found of a portion of the words printed on the paper. They were pe fectly well-defined and wholly unaffected by the motion of the disc." "As I am not aware that this experiment has ever succeeded, or indeed been tried, previously, I have thought it incumlbent on me to lay an early account of it before the Royal Society." 5. " On the Impregnation of the Ovum, in the Amphibia (Second Series), and on the Nature of the Ilnpregnating Influence." By George Newport, Esq., F.R.S, F.L.S. c. Received June 19,1851. The author commences his paper by stating that, having given direct proof, in his former paper, that the spermatozoon is the im- pregnating agent, and also that the liquor semiis does not effect impregnation, he now proposes to detail some new experiments which bear on the views he then advanced; and especially with respect to the natupe of the impregnatin' influence. He first details some additional experinments with solution of car- mine, with the object to show, that the result of one experiment men- tioned in his former paper, in which he detected a small granule of carmine Within the vitellary membrane, was attributable to the cause he then assigned-accidental injury to the egg,; and he states that the results of his present investigations confirm him in the view then held,--that no natural perforation or fissure exists in the en'velopes of the egg, either of the Frog or of the Newt, before, or at the</page></plain_text>