<plain_text><page sequence="1">Pigeon Poxvirus Pigeon pox is a viral disease characterized by a transitory inflam- matory process, hyperplasia of the feather follicles and epidermis with intracytoplasmic inclusions ter- minating with the formation of scabs and desquamation of the degenerated epithelium. In some cases diptheritic membranes develop in the mouth and esophagus. Flock mortality is usually low. It may be high if a virulent virus is pre- sent or if complicated by parasites, other infections, or poor flock condi- tion. Pox is not of public health significance as mammals are not affected. Poxvirus infection occurs through mechanical transmission to injured skin, airborn transmission, or from insect vectors, particularly mos- quitoes. The virus is found in saliva, nasal and lacrimal secretions of the birds. A true carrier state does not exist, but latent infection may occur. The incubation period of natural disease is 4 to 10 days. The characteristic lesions of the cutaneous form occur on the cere, wattle, legs, feet, and commissure of the beak. The virus causes a local epithelial hyperplasia, with the for- mation of nodules that first appear as small white foci, and then increase in size and become yellow. After about 2 weeks a scab will form ending with desquamation of the degenerated epithelial layer. In the diptheritic form white opaque nodules develop on the mucous membranes. The nodules rapidly increase in size to become a yellow, cheesy, necrotic diptheritic membrane. Treatment of infected birds consists of supportive care. A live virus vac- cine from Vineland Laboratories has been available, but has reportedly been removed from the market. Prevention of the disease consists of screening of lofts, No Pest" strips in lofts, and isolation of infected birds. Pigeon pox is an important disease in pigeons causing loss of condition, disfigurement and death. A safe, ef- fective vaccine would be of great benefit to the pigeon fanciers. - Jon F. Esposito, DVM, El Paso, Texas</page></plain_text>