<plain_text><page sequence="1">Allociation of Pigeon Veterinarian Highlights of APV Meeting Dr. J. W.E. Stam of The Netherlands was the primary speaker at the Association of Pigeon Veterinarians 1988 Annual Meeting in Akron, Ohio. The following selected notes are from his presentation. ORNITHOSE COMPLEX There is a difference between or- nithosis and ornithose complex. In the first case, a chlamydia is the causal agent for the disease. The agents of the ornithose complex can be various: Mycoplasma columbinum, M. columborale, E. coli, Haemophilus, chlamydia, herpesvirus, or combinations of these. A true chlamydial infection in racing birds is seldom seen, but every pigeon fancier will see the ornithose complex in his loft every year. The clinical symptoms begin with a grey moisture on the cornea, mostly a unilateral conjunctivitis, brown drops from the nose, a red throat, respiratory disease and sneezing. In older birds, "rattling" respiratory sounds are more common than in young birds. Because youngsters are so sensitive to ornithose complex, there are four factors the fancier must consider: 1. the loft must be free of draught. 2. no more than 20 youngsters (or 9 widows) should be placed together in a 2 x 2 x 2 m compartment. 3. young pigeons of different breeding rounds should be separated. 4. after returning from a race, an- tibiotics should be provided for a full day in the drinking water. If there is a directional draught, the "one-eye cold" may be seen. Only a few pigeons will be affected and they all have an irritated ocular mucosa (conjunctivitis) on the same side. Sometimes the eyelids are at- tached to each other so that it is dif- ficult to separate them. The treatment of a conjunctivitis should be with a powder. A good one is chloramphenicol powder 10%. Only when this treatment fails do you have to use an ointment. The bad aspect of an eye ointment is that dust or feathers may adhere to the treated part, and the bird will start to scratch. The powder will not harm the cornea. (Note from Roger Harlin: I have not found chloro powder available here; Tylan powder is effec- tive if the condition is not com- plicated with non-sensitive gram- negative bacteria. Ophthalmic solu- tions are OK, e.g., gentamicin for Pseudomonas.) The treatment of ornithose com- plex consists of keeping the pigeons in a draught-free place and ad- ministration of doxycycline (50 mg s.c.) to be repeated after one week. (Harlin: Doxycycline hyclate tablets - 50 mg/lb b.i.d.) Also tylocine 50 mg s.c. or Lin- cospectin 100 mg s.c. may be given instead. (Harlin: I use 25 mg Spec- tinomycin and 25 mg Lincocin, per pound b.i.d. and it is very effective.) GENERAL REMARKS If a veterinarian is not a pigeon fancier, he or she should not hold a pigeon; the unfamiliar holding of a pigeon irritates the owner and you will lose his trust. After an examination, do not say that the pigeon is healthy; say that you did not find any signs of known diseases. Do not take blood of the pigeon from the vein of the wing, but in- stead always from the vein of the leg. The right site and the direction for a subcutaneous injection (e.g., vac- cination) is between the shoulders in the direction of the head, and not (as it is described in some papers) direct- ly behind the head. After any surgical procedure, do not use penicillin. Do not use an- tibiotic at all after a skin surgery. During an operation, the head of the pigeon has to be held a little higher than the rest of the body. It is better to operate twice than to operate for a long time. Do not expect to find salmonella on a normal bacteriologic examina- tion of the mucous of a thickening elbow because it will be the L-form and negative on the usual media. When fanciers visit you with com- plaints about the performance of the pigeon, be advised that most of the racing pigeons are too stout or too fat; there are many reasons that it is important to give good advice at once; you can help him only when you know how he is keeping his pigeons and what he is feeding them, but pigeon fanciers do not like to talk about their "secrets." Candida in Racing Pigeons According to reports on epidemic incidences of candida in racing pigeons in Portugal, 200 pigeons were examined in the pigeon hospital belonging to the Association of Ger- man Racing Pigeon Fanciers. Candida spp. were found in 46% of the pigeons, but with no clinical signs. Significant correlations with the simultaneous occurrence of trichomonades, paratyphus and coryza-complex could not be observed. - J. Raddei and R. Ruger, Essen (From Proceedings of 1988 Con- ference on Avian Diseases, Munich, West Germany, pp 58-61) VOL.2 NO.4 1988 203</page></plain_text>