<plain_text><page sequence="1">Surgery IME 583. . USE OF ISOFLURANE IN BIRDS Isoflurane (human inhalant anes thetic - Forane) has been used exclu sively in my practice for the past year, and in my opinion is the anes thetic of choice for pet birds. The primary advantages are: Safe in critical patients Low potential for organ toxicity Rapid response of patient to changes in level of anesthesia Extremely rapid full recovery No anesthetic hangover Extended interval between apnea and cardiac arrest Minimal waste gas danger to operating room personnel in hospitals with inadequate scavenger systems. The rapid recovery time is es pecially valuable for taking diagnos tic quality radiographs under anes thesia and returning a fully alert patient to the owner in the examina tion room in minutes. The low poten tial for hepatic damage protects the already compromised patient from fur ther organ assault by the anesthetic. The use of isoflurane provides the opportunity to perform intensive sup port therapy with minimum stress (e.g. frequent administration of in travenous fluids) and to ultimately save a higher percentage of critical birds presented to an avian clinic. Because the vapor pressures of halothane and isoflurane are very similar, isoflurane may be used in a "tec type" vaporizer calibrated for halothane. However, if a halothane vaporizer is used, the preservatives which have accumulated in the machine from halothane use must be thoroughly cleaned out with several soaks and flushes with ether prior to the installation of isoflurane. Changing back and forth between the use of isoflurane and halothane in the same machine is contraindicated, therefore the manufacturer recommends a separate isoflurane vaporizer. A 5% concentration with 1-2 liters flow of oxygen per minute is safely used for induction; mainten ance is 2.5-3.5% concentration and .8-1 liters of oxygen per minute. The anesthetic concentration can be safely adjusted frequently to main tain the bird at the lightest anes thetic plane required for the proce dure. A complete discussion of the clinical potential of isoflurane, and details of a limited study comparing isoflurane to other popular anesthe tics for birds is presented in the 1985 Boulder AAV Proceedings. The primary disadvantage of iso flurane is its unavailability through veterinary suppliers. Currently iso flurane must be obtained through human pharmacies. Approval of iso flurane by the FDA for use in horses is expected in September. Following approval the product will be avail able to equine practitioners as AErrane (Anaquest, Madison, WS). -- Greg J. Harrison, DVM Lake Worth, FL IME 584 . . CONTRAINDICATIONS FOR ISOFLURANE USE There are two cautions for the use of isoflurane that I am aware of, both relating to the high vapor Dres sure of the substance (See IME 585 ), 1. Isoflurane must NOT be ad ministered when the ambient tempera ture is above 30? C. 2. Isoflurane MUST be admini stered ONLY by precision vaporizer. I was recently informed about the death of a macaw after isoflurane anesthesia had been administered by open drip method (liquid anesthetic applied to a cotton ball inside a container). ADMINISTRATION OF ISOFLURANE BY OPEN DRIP METHOD IS CONTRAINDICATED, UNSAFE, UNETHICAL, AND GROUNDS FOR MALPRACTICE. In addition, because isoflurane is not yet approved for veterinary use, we are endangering our own fu ture accessibility to the product by such irresponsible practices. -- Greg J. Harrison, DVM Lake Worth, FL 55</page><page sequence="2">IME 585 . . DIFFERENCES IN ANESTHETIC VAPOR PRESSURES The concentration of gas anes thetic that a patient inspires is partly dependent on the maximum con centration that the particular agent can deliver at a given temperature. This available concentration is di rectly related to the agent's vapor pressure. At room temperature, a gas anesthetic with a low vapor pressure can deliver only a small concentra tion of agent to the patient while an anesthetic with a high vapor pressure would deliver a much higher concen tration. Methoxyf1urane, for exam ple, has a low vapor pressure (23 mm Hg at 20?C) which make its use in a cone type applicator possible. How ever, this is unadvisable' in avian species due to the total lack of control of anesthetic concentration delivered to the patient. In addi tion, the levels of oxygen and carbon dioxide inside the cone may reach dangerous proportions. Halothane and isoflurane, on the other hand, have high vapor pressures (243 mmHg and 240 mmHg at 20 C re spectively). These high vapor pres sures can and from reported cases have resulted in the administration of lethal levels of anesthetic when a cone type system is employed. -- Branson Ritchie, DVM Lake Worth, FL IME 586 . . EFFECTS OF PROLONGED ISOFLURANE USE In order to assess the effects of prolonged use of isoflurane in raptors, I maintained a Red-shoul dered Hawk on 2% isoflurane for eight hours. Although the bird did not have an open abdomen, she did have an irrepairable fracture. No heat or other supportive measures were of fered. I did not have to change the level of anesthesia as the time was extended. When the anesthetic was turned off, the bird was laid on her sternum and was up and totally recov ered within minutes. Anyone working with birds should use isoflurane. -- Ron Dalzell , DVM Somis, CA IME 587 . . ELEVATION OF SURGEON'S LIVER ENZYMES FROM HALOTHANE USE After I was found to have elevated SGPT and SGOT levels during a routine physical, my liver enzymes were monitored over a period of time. The test results would vacilate between normal and elevated values. It was suspected to be related to my use of halothane in the surgery room and a provocative testing further verified that theory. The diagnosis from a subsequent liver biopsy was chronic persistent hepatitis, probably from use of halothane anes thesia. Since that time I have been able to use only injectable anesthetics however I shall now be able to consider isoflurane. -- Sheldon Gerstenfeld, VMD Philadelphia, PA IME 588 . . DIFFICULTIES IN ESTIMATION OF FEMALE REPRODUCTIVE AGE One cannot rely on the appearance of the ovary during laparoscopy to estimate the sexual maturity of a bird. During the "adolescent" period, the follicles apparently go through several cycles of development and reabsorption and may appear mature during this time. Each cycle further stimulates the development of the uterus until the uterus is large enough to accept the yolk, lay down the white and shell. One would have to evaluate the uterus directly for maturity. An egg-laying cockatiel would have a uterus about i cm by 8 cm Conversely, an adult female may have flat-appearing ovaries which may be quickly stimulated into activity by placement into an appropriate breeding situation. -- Greg J. Harri son, DVM Lake Worth, FL 56</page><page sequence="3">IME 589 . . COMMERCIAL SOURCE OF TRANSPARENT SURGICAL DRAPES FOR BIRDS IME 445 described the advantages of using transparent drapes for sur gical procedures. General Econpak, Inc. (Philadelphia, PA 215-763-8200) has made a transparent avian drape which is adequate to cover a large bird and the immediate surrounding table. It has a central fenestration surrounded by an adhesive area to stick the drape to the bird. There are also two small adhesive areas at the edges of the drape to help hold it in position on the operating tab le. The plastic is heavy enough to resist tearing or accidental penetra tion with an instrument, but isn't too stiff. The drapes can be gas sterilized. Cost is $3.50 per pre packed, double-wrapped sterile drape. These folks also make an adhe sive water resistent paper-tape strip (Econo-Tape Strip) that can be used similar to an orthopedic stockinette for covering non-sterile wing feat hers during orthopedic procedures. The strips come two to a pack for $.75 pre-steri1ized (200 packs per case). -- Douglas M. MacCoy, DVM Uni versi ty of Illinois IME 590 . . TECHNIQUE FOR BONE MARROW ASPIRATION I prefer the cranial aspect of the tibia as the site for bone marrow aspirates in birds. Spinal needles or those with stylets are the pre ferred instruments in order to avoid bone plugs. The size of needle de pends on the size of the bird. For a Red-tailed hawk or Great-horned owl, I use an 18 gauge needle 1 1/2 " long. A 22 gauge needle is used for parrots. After the site is aseptically prepared, I hold the tibia with one hand so the needle can be directed with the other hand into the cranial aspect. I insert the needle through the patellar ligament, aspirate im mediately back and pull the needle out. I believe the biggest secret of the technique to avoid peripheral blood contamination is in making only one or two jerks on the syringe. I have used the same technique with larger needles to obtain bone biopsiesf- although it is necessary to anesthetize the patient for these procedures. The birds are not lame afterwards nor have I noticed any joint problems. The practitioner may want to practice on cadavers before attemp ting the technique on a client's bird. -- Nicole VanDerHeyden, DVM Purdue Uni versi ty IME 591 . . RAPID AND EFFECTIVE DEVOCAL IZATI ON TECHNIQUE An acceptable reduction of vo calization, particularly in gallina ceous birds, has been achieved with the relatively simple technique of applying phenol to the syrinx. The syrinx is surgically approached and isolated by dissection of the sur rounding musculature. Liquid phenol is painted around the syrinx in a 1/2" swath with a cotton tipped ap plicator, taking care to avoid con tact of the chemical with surrounding tissues. Because of the reaction, the painted tissue will turn white. The application process can be re peated to necrose the tissue to a greater depth if required. Occasionally a bird will get some return of voice months later and the entire procedure can be repeated. There is relatively little scar tis sue around the area. This is a very rapid procedure that can be accom plished in seconds once the area has been surgically approached. The pro cedure has been performed once in a cockatoo. In one case, although the oroce dure was successful, the end result was not. Devocalization was reques ted for a pet goose that acted like a watch dog and made a lot of noise when visitors approached the house. However, after the devocalization, the goose apparently became frus trated with the loss of its "warning device" and started attacking people when they arrived. -- Dr. David Madill Springvale, Vic. AUSTRALIA 57</page></plain_text>