<plain_text><page sequence="1">Anesthesia in Waterfowl Veterinarians who need to perform anesthesia on any of the Anseriformes (ducks, geese, swans and screamers) should be aware of some problems peculiar to these birds. We have found longer than usual induction times with inhalant anesthetics and with intramuscular administration of injectable anesthetics, when compared with psittacines. This is most likely due to the large fat depositions found in the subcutaneous tissues of these birds. Increased fatty tissue causes a prolonged equilibrium time (i.e., it may take longer to reach a surgical plane of anesthesia and longer to recover from critical anesthetic depths). This is of para- mount importance in the compro- mised patient. When intubating long-necked waterfowl, care should be taken to keep the neck well-extended. This will prevent folding of the trachea over the end of the endotracheal tube and subsequent respiratory obstruc- tion. Whenever a bird is placed on its back, a degree of respiratory com- promise is present. Therefore, all waterfowl should be placed on a ven- tilator and supported during any anesthetic procedure. Alternatively, the bird can be mechanically ven- tilated with a rebreathing bag or an ambue bag. As with mammals, a peak positive pressure on inhalation of 15-20 cm of water is adequate. Any bird with evidence of respiratory disease and lung compromise will have spotty absorption of inhalant anesthetics and can be expected to have a rough or uneven induction. Our inhalant anesthetic of choice is isoflurane due to its rapid induction and recovery times. With halothane and isoflurane, waterfowl tend to change planes of anesthesia rapidly and unexpectedly, therefore monitoring of vital parameters is essential to surgical suc- cess. Cardiac monitoring of anesthetized waterfowl may be ac- complished with a doppler flow probe placed under the tongue, an esophageal stethoscope or an ECG. For smaller birds, a doppler flow probe placed against the carotid artery is adequate. A rectal or esophageal thermometer is useful to monitor body temperature. Recovery will be more rapid if the body temperature is maintained. The use of hot water heating pads and hot water bottles or other sources of ex- ogenous heat cannot be overemphasized. When using injectable anesthetics in waterfowl, one should avoid injec- ting the material into fat depositions located subcutaneously over the pec- toral muscles, where relatively poor circulation will lead to inadequate in- duction. (Fat pads tend to be larger during the breeding season.) A 50:50 mixture of ketamine HCI (100 mg/ml) and xylazine HCI (20 mg/ml) is our choice for injectable anesthesia or premedication. Using a mathematical approach that permits scaling of dosages of pharmaceutical agents based on the energy costs of basal body metabolism for any given species, we dose our ketamine HCl/xylazine HCI mixture at 0.002 - 0.004 mls/kcal. (Note that this is given in milliliters/kcal not milligrams/kcal.) For waterfowl, the basal calculation is: kcals/day = 78 x BW 0.75). The average male Mallard duck weighing 1.1 kg, requiring 83.8 kcal of energy per day, will need 0.16 - 0.34 ml of the mixture for anesthesia. The average 4.2 kg Canada Goose, utiliz- ing 228.8 kcals/day will need 0.46 - 0.9 ml of the mixture for adequate anesthesia. - Elizabeth Kaufman, DVM, Mark Pokras, DVM, and Charles Sedgwick, DVM, Wildlife Clinic, Tufts Univer- sity, School of Veterinary Medicine</page></plain_text>