<plain_text><page sequence="1">49 not exceed 1 I cwt. per week; but it is of very good quality, and is used extensively in Italy under the name of Sal Inglese. On the Formation of Fat in the Intestine of the Tadpole, and on the Use of the Yolk in the Formation of the Embryo in the Egg. By Sir Everard Home, Bart. V.P.R.S. Read May 23, 1816. [Phil. Trans. 1816, p. 301.] From the smallness of tadpoles in this country, they have not at- tracted the notice of naturalists so much as their peculiarities deserve. But those of the Rana paradoxa of Surinam being of a much larger size, are fitter subjects for observation. The tadpole of this frog bears so strong a resemblance to a fish, that it is commonly sold as such for the use of the table. But as these are not to be had here in suf- ficient quantity for examination, the author had recourse to the com- mon tadpole of this country. This animal, as soon as it leaves the ovum, has ten filaments pro- jecting from the neck on each side, which answer the purpose of gills. In the young shark, while yet in the egg, there are twenty-four si- milar filaments to answer the same purpose. In the common newt also is a similar apparatus, but the number is only three on each side. In each instance this structure is but temporary, and drops off when the permanent structure of -lungs in the frog, and of gills in the shark, is completely formed. During the growth of the tadpole its abdomen becomes distended, the intestine being then very capacious, and filled throughout its whole extent with a soft substance, that burns with a vegetable smell. Behind the intestine, along the posterior part of the abdomen, is accumulated a quantity of fat of a yellow colour, inclosed in long thin transparent membranous bags. During the conversion of the tadpole into the frog by development of the legs, lungs, and other organs before wanting, the whole of this fatty matter becomes ab- sorbed, in the same manner as the yolk of the hen's egg is taken up during the progressive growth of the young chicken. So that al- though the egg of the frog differs from that of other animals of the same class in having no yolk, a substance corresponding to it ap- pears to be necessary previous to the formation of bones, and other more solid parts of the perfect frog. For the production of this matter, it is observed that the tadpole is provided with a most un- common length of intestine, which contracts to one of ordinary size as soon as the full supply of fat is generated. The author adds the result of various chemical experiments, made by Mr. Hatchett and Mr. Brande on the spawn of the frog, from which it appears, that it is of a nature between gelatin and albumen; that it contains no concrete oil like that of the hen's egg; that the ova of the lizard and snake, and of cartilaginous fishes, have, on the con- trary, yolks which do. contain a concrete oil, that in its: nutritive quali- ties corresponds to the butyraceous part of milk with which the young of viviparous animals are supported for a certain time after birth. VOL. II. K</page><page sequence="2">50 From these observations, and from the peculiar provision of fat laid up by the tadpole previous to its metamorphosis into the frog, Sir Everard Home is led to consider a certain portion of oil as ne- cessary for the formation of bone, and to observe that the proportion of fat in different ova, corresponds with the greater or less degree of hardness of bone that is about to be produced. On the Structure of the Crystalline Lens in Fishes and Quadrupeds, as ascertained by its Action on Polarized Light. By David Brewster, LL.D. F.R.S. Lond. and Edin. In a Letter addressed to the Right Hon. Sir Joseph Banks, Bart. G.C.B. P.R.S. Read June 20,1816. [Phil. Trans. 1816,p. 311.] The author having found that in many instances depolarization depends upon variations of density in the bodies through which it is transmitted, concluded that corresponding effects would, be produced by the crystalline lens of the eye, which is well known to increase in density towards the centre. By immersing the crystalline lens of a cod in Canada balsam, the refraction at its exterior surface was so far removed, that the effects of its internal texture could be examined independent of its external spherical form. Under these circumstances, when it was exposed to polarized light, with its axis of vision parallel to the beam of light, it exhibited three concentric circles of light separated by two dark circles, and intersected by a black cross so as to be divided into twelve luminous sectors. By varying the inclination of the axis, these ap- pearances varied in a manner that can scarcely be described without the assistance of the drawings which accompany this paper. By removing successively the capsule and outer portions of the lens, the exterior circle of light was first obliterated; and then the second disappeared, so that ultimately there remained only the cen- tral light intersected by a black cross. On examination of the variation of tints of colours produced by the combined effect of the crystalline with a plate of sulphate of lime, it appeared to the author that the central nucleus, and an exterior spherical coat, are in a state of dilation, while the intermediate coats *are in a state of colntraction. In the crystallines of sheep and oxen, the author observed a corre- spondent texture,; but in these there appeared only one series of lu- minous sectors. By examination of the cornea also, Dr. Brewster found a texture similar to that of the nucleus of the crystalline, both in fish and qua- drupeds; but the sclerotic coat has merely a confused power of de- polarization, similar to that of a mass of crushed jelly of isinglass, a property which does not really belong to its whole substance, but solely to a thin membrane that covers it externally. From these experiments Dr. Brewster infers, that all the parts of bthe crystalline of fishes correspondent to the two dark concentric circles, exercise no action upon polarized light; that a central nu-</page></plain_text>