<plain_text><page sequence="1">March 2, 1837. WILLIAM LAWRENCE, Esq., V.P., in the Chair. The reading of a paper, entitled, " On the Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Medulla Spinalis, and on the Excito-motory System of Nerves/' By Marshall Hall, M.D., F.R.S., L. and E., &amp;c, was resumed and concluded. The author begins by observing that a former memoir of his, en? titled, "On the Reflex Function of the Medulla Oblongata and Me? dulla Spinalis," published in the Philosophical Transactions for 1833, has been translated into German, and favourably spoken of by Pro? fessor Muller, of Berlin. He states that his object in the present paper is to unfold what he calls a great principle in physiology -, namely, that of the special function, and the physiological and pathological action and reactions of the true spinal marrow, and of the excito-motory nerves. The two experiments which he regards as affording the type of those physiological phenomena and pathological conditions, which are the direct effects of causes acting in the spinal marrow, or in the course ofthe motor nerves, are the following :?1. If a muscular nerve be stimulated, either mechanically by the forceps, or by means of gal? vanism passed transversely across its fibres, the muscle or muscles to which it is distributed are excited to contract.? 2. The same result is obtained when the spinal marrow itself is subjected to the agency of a mechanical or galvanic stimulus. The following experiment, on the other hand, presents the type of all the actions of the reflex func- 2o2</page><page sequence="2">464 tion of the spinal marrow, and of the excito-motory system of nerves, and of an exclusive series of physiological and pathological pheno? mena :?If in a turtle, from which the head and sternum have been removed, we lay bare the sixth or seventh intercostal nerve, and sti- mulate it either by means of the forceps or galvanism, both the ante? rior and posterior fins, with the tail, are immediately moved with energy. Hence the author infers the existence: 1st, of a true spinal marrow, physiologically distinct from the chord of intra-spinal nerves 5 2ndly, of a system of excito-motory nerves, physiologically distinct from the sentient and voluntary nerves : and, 3rdly, of currents of nervous influence, incident, upwards, downwards, and reflex with re? gard to the spinal marrow. A revicw is then taken of the labours of preceding physiologists relative to the functions of the nervous system : in which the author criticises the reasonings of Whytt, Legallois, Mr. Mayo, Dr. Alison, and Professor Mullcr ; and illustrates his own peculiar views by several experiments and pathological observations, which appear to him to show that muscular movements may occur, under circumstances imply- ing the cessation of sensation, volition, and every other function ofthe brain; and that these phenomena are cxplicable only on the hypothesis that impressionsmade on a certain set of nerves, which he terms excito- motory, are conveyed to a particular portion of the spinal marrow belonging to that system, and are thence reflected, by means of cer? tain motor nerves, upon certain sets of muscles, inducing certain ac? tions. The same actions may also be the result of impressions made directly either on the spinal marrow or on the motor nerves. He accordingly considers that the whole nervous system may be divided into,? 1st, the cerebral, or the sentient and voluntary; 2ndly, the true spinal, or the excitor and motor ; and, 3rdly, the ganglionic, or the nutrient, the secretory, &amp;c. The excito-motory system presides over ingestion and exclusion, retention and egestion, and over the orifices and sphincters of the animal frame: it is therefore the ner? vous system of respiration, deglutition, &amp;c, and the source of tone in the whole muscular system. The true spinal system is the seat or nervous agent of the appetites and passions, but is also susceptible of modification by volition. This theory he proceeds to apply to the explanation of several phenomena relating to the motions of the eye- lids, pharynx, cardia, larynx, muscles of inspiration, sphincter ani, expulsors of the faeces and semen, to the tone of the muscular system generally, and to actions resulting from the passions. Lastly, he considers its application to various diseased states of the same func? tions, as manifested in cynic spasm, vomiting, asthma, tenesmus, strangury, crowing inspiration, convulsions, epilepsy, tetanus, hydro- phobia, and paralysis. Reference is made, in the course ofthe paper, to several drawings Rnd diagrams, which, however, have not yet been supplied.</page></plain_text>