<plain_text><page sequence="1">March 6, 1851. GEORGE RENNIE, Esq., V.P., in the Chair. In accordance with the statutes, the following List of Candidates for admission into the Society was read by the Secretary:- Charles Cardale Babington,M.A. Richard Hartley Kennedy, Esq. Thomas Snow Beck, M.D. William Edmund Logan, Esq. Daniel Blair, M.D. Edward Joseph Lowe, Esq. Alexander Bryson, M.D. Charles Manby, Esq. Charles James Fox Bunbury, Esq. Joseph Maudslay, Esq. Rev. Jonathan Cape, M.A. James Paget, Esq. Rev. John Cumming, D.D. Hugh Lee Pattinson, Esq. Hewitt Davis, Esq. Apsley Pellatt, Esq. George T. Doo, Esq. Rev. Bartholomew Price, M.A. Edward B. Eastwick, Esq. Lovell Augustus Reeve, Esq. Charles M. Elliot, Capt. Madras Julius Roberts, Lieut. R.M.A. Engineers. George Gabriel Stokes, Esq. Robert Fitzroy, Capt. R.N. William Thomson, Esq. Henry Gray, Esq. Augustus Waller, M.D. Wyndham Harding, Esq. Nathaniel Bagshaw Ward, Esq. John Hawkshaw, Esq. Arthur Parry Eardley Wilmot, John Higginbottom, Esq. Corn. R.N. John Russell Hind, Esq. Forbes Benignus Winslow, M.D. Augustus Wm. Hofmann, Ph.D. Charles Younghusband, Capte Thomas Henry Huxley, Esq. R.A. Edward Augustus Inglefield, Corn. R.N. The following papers were read:- 1. "On the Explanation of the so-called 'Mysterious Circles.'" By the Rev. Robert H. Atherton. Communicated by the Earl of Rosse, P.R.S. &amp;c. Received November 28, 1850. The author refers to explanations which have been given of the phenomenon, of which he proposes to give a new one, and points out various courses which the propelled air may be supposed to to take with reference to the cards. He then offers what he con- siders to be the true explanation of the phenomenon. He con- siders that no sooner has the air struck upon the loose card, than it is reflected, spreading partly, if not entirely, over its surface, and then ascends, carrying with it the interposing atmosphere, and ex- cluding the surrounding air. This, he submits, is analogous to ordi- nary suction, and by this means the loose card is at once drawn up and fixed. He considers that the reflected air, thus rising and driven out by the descending current, will have additional power when the fixed card is considerably larger than the other. 2. "' On the relation of the Direction of the Wind to the Age of the Moon, as inferred from observations at the Royal Observatory, PROCEEDINGS OF THE ROYAL SOCIETY. VOL. VI. No. 78. 3</page></plain_text>