<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 10: 17-34, 1986 SIMILARITY AND STRUCTURED ATTRIBUTES IN ECOLOGICAL CLASSIFICATION M. B. DALE1 and P. E. R. DALE2 1 CSJ.RO, Division of Computing Research, Cunningham Laboratory, St. Lucia, Queensland, 4067, Australia 2 School of Australian Environmental Studies, Griffith University, Nathan, Queensland, Australia Numerical classification and ordination methods commonly require the calculation of pairwise similarities between items. Such similarities are calculated from the observed values for various attributes. In most cases these values are assumed to be single codes or numbers. However, if the states of an attri- bute are ordered, showing a sequential structuring, it may be desirable to adjust for the structure in the measure of simi- larity. In this paper we discuss both this simple case and some other possible structures for attribute states, and for attri- butes, and present some methods which offer the user a means of combining the state frequencies with this structure. This leads to the development of more apposite measures of similarity, and the value of such measures is illustrated by an application to vegetation patterns on Masthead Island, Great Barrier Reef. INTRODUCTION Many methods of numerical classification and ordination in- volve the calculation of pairwise similarities, and with most such measures it is assumed that all variables contributing to the similarity are single-valued. Thus, in an ecological study, if a user had recorded the variables 'height' and 'density' for every species, the two values pertinent to a single species were regarded as independent measures for the purposes of calculat- ing similarities. Now consider the case where the frequency of individuals in each of several height classes, or density class- es, was recorded for each sample area. It is not obvious that all these frequencies should be regarded as 'independent' mea-</page><page sequence="2">18 sures because there is an implied ordering of the classes. Two items with high frequencies recorded in adjacent classes will usually be regarded as more similar than two items where the high frequencies are found in widely separated classes. The va- riables are structured, with various values linked together so that what we really have is a single vector value for each att- ribute. This is one type of structured variable; simply an or- dered collection of values which we wish to treat as a single indivisible unit for the purposes of similarity calculation. Such vectors of frequency values have previously been studied by Weir (1970) and we shall discuss his approach in more detail later. This is not the only kind of structured variable which might occur. Sometimes the structure involves relationships between attributes rather than between states of a single attribute. Thus Ito et al. (1984) have sought to remove the effects of correlation between attributes. However, Proctor and Kendrick (1963) have noted with taxonomie data that some correlation between variables is due to logical dependency between them; one variable cannot be observed, or given a value unless another lies in some specific range of values. In ecology, this situa- tion arises in the presence/quantity disjunction, for you can- not measure the abundance of a species if it is not present. Williams and Dale (1962, see also Williams 1969, 1973) have presented some partitioning methods for handling such struc- tures while Ben-Bassat and Zaidenberg (1984) have presented a more complex technique applicable to the more general taxonomie problem, with several levels of dependency. Here the structure is in the form of a tree. Comparison of trees is discussed by Lu (1984) and the determination of the appropriate tree struc- ture has been studied by Price et al. (1980). Logical dependency and correlation are concerned with rela- tions between attributes. Other forms of structure have been briefly discussed by Lance (1970), dealing with relationships between states of multistate attributes. He introduced non-</page><page sequence="3">19 exclusive, semi-ordinal and pseudo-ordinal variables to dis- tinguish the various kinds. Non-exclusive variables can have two or more states recorded simultaneously. Lance only con- siders presence/absence of states, so his data record the pre- sence of a subset of a set of states; his example is 'co- lour of feathers' with possible values of red, green, blue, etc. A parrot would record several such values. We could of course record the proportion of each colour, which would lead us tò the use of a fuzzy set (Zadeh 1965); this is returning to the frequency distribution structure discussed initially. More complex structures are possible of course. Obviously we could extend the vector structure by further cross-classif- ication which would lead to matrices of values. If we were recording leaf sizes, we could have multiple values some of which might be equal, leading to the notion of a multiset or bag . Alternatively we might attempt to record leaf shape, using a series of direction codes to determine the outline. Such description would lead to sequences of symbols describing each leaf, each of a different length; the relevant structure here is a string . Finally, we could follow some cladistic taxo- nomists (e.g. Estabrook 1972) and arrange the states in a tree structure. This resembles the case of logical dependency, though here it is states and not attributes which form the nodes of the tree. Tree structures are close to Lance's (1970) semi- and pseudo- ordinal types. Semi-ordinal, in Lance's example would include states linked in several series. For example, red, yellow, blue, pink and white can be arranged in two partial series, 'red-yellow-blue' based on hue, and ' red- pink-white', based on tint, which together can obviously form a tree structure, linked through red. Pseudo-ordinal in Lance's terminology includes attributes such as chromosome number . Here the numbers '7, 14, 21' might be regarded as forming a series ' haploid-diploid-triploid ' , which might also include '20' but not '10'. However '20' could as easily be linked to' 10', so the structure is perhaps best related to a directed graph .</page><page sequence="4">20 In all these examples of structured attribute states, the critical feature is that the differences between states cannot be regarded as equal for all pairs of states. Thus in Lance's semi-ordinal example, if two items have values of 'red' and 'yellow' the difference between these states is, in some sense less than the difference between 'blue' and 'white'. In this paper we shall start by examining various proposals which exist in the literature for calculating similarities between fre- quency distributions. From this basis some extensions can be made which allow some of the other types of structure to be analysed. However we must first distinguish between some types of frequency distributions. In some cases the values which an attribute can take are unordered, so the description is at a no- minal scale. In such cases there is no structure relating the states of the attribute and their frequencies can be treated as independent values, subject perhaps only to some normalisation to remove the effects of differences in number of states be- tween attributes. Suggestions for using unordered frequency data include those of Dale and Anderson (1973), whereas if the data are converted to probabilities, Bhattacharya ' s (1943) distance has attractive properties under general conditions, al- though there are other possible choices (see e.g. Laaka et al. 1985 for some examples). If the frequencies are reduced to pre- sence or absence of the state, as in Lance's (1970) non- exclusive multistate attributes, then Lance and Williams (1967 a,b) have suggested means of inclusion in similarity calcula- tions, and these are included in programs in the TAXON package ( Ross 1983 ) . For ordered attributes there are again two types, of which density and height will serve as examples. With density classes there is no preferential order; we cannot always argue that high densities develop from low densities, or vice versa. In contrast, with height of a plant, a tall plant must at some stage have been a small plant; the states are directed and there is a preferential ordering. Michalski and Stepp (1983) have noted that this directed structure for a single</page><page sequence="5">21 classification such as height class can be generalised to tree structures . METHODS FOR FREQUENCY DISTRIBUTIONS If we examine some data in the form of frequency distribu- tions the objective of including the structure becomes apparent. Let us assume we have 4 height classes, and have four samples, with frequency values for each class as follows: Hx = (16,0,0,0) H2 = (0,16,0,0) H 3 = (0,0,0,16) H4 = (3,10,3,0) Since the classes are ordered, it seems reasonable to regard and as MORE similar than and . It is not quite so obvious where to place H^, and we would be aided by some nume- rical assessment of its relative position. Our problem is, then, to determine how to incorporate the ordered structure of an attribute into the calculation of a similarity measure. Once this is accomplished then the normal classification or ordination procedures can be applied. To simplify matters we shall consider a single attribute only, since in most similarity measures the contributions of attri- butes are simply summed. Note though that if logical dependency occurs between attributes, then a more complex method of combin- ing the individual attribute contributions may be preferable, and where attributes of several different types are present some normalisation will usually be required to equilibrate their contributions. We have then, for a single species, the frequency of its occurrence in several height classes. We wish to calculate a measure of similarity between two sites, x and y, where the fre- quency of the j-th species is given by x ^ respectively. To do this let us define the Bray-Curtis (1957) coefficient of</page><page sequence="6">22 similarity . S = ZjUļ-ījl/IļUļ+īj): j = l,p. where p is the number of (height) classes. The Bray-Curtis measure is of course just one measure of dissimilarity; other measures could be substituted if desired. If we examine the dissimilarities between our items we dis- cover that the values for ^ anc* s2 3 are identically unity, which is not what we require. We need some means of incorporating the structural information. Weir (197 0) proposed to incorporate the structure as follows. First define a vector of values q which should not ex- ceed in length the number p of (height) classes. Weir suggests the following values on a semi-empirical basis; (1.0,0.5,0.5,0.4,0.33,0.3,0.3,0.3,0.3) He next proceeds to identify peaks in both the x and y vectors, where a peak is defined to be a position in the vector where the ratio Xj/£(Xj), or Yj/Z(Yj) exceeds the corresponding value in the q vector. Next identify that pair of peaks, xm and y j. , such that the difference between locations d=|m-n| is j. n minimised. The dissimilarity is then defined as s+d/p, simply combining arithmetically the Bray-Curtis value and the relative difference of the most similar peaks. Weir states that this assumes equal class intervals, and gives special corrections for the case when peaks are absent. Weir's suggestions do not seem to have been widely used, perhaps because of the somewhat ad hoc nature of the peak de- termination process, although computer programs incorporating the technique have been written. Recently, two further contri- butions have appeared which attempt to treat the problem. Faith et al. (1985) distinguish two components of similarity. One is a function of the differences which they term ID, the other a function of the relationship between the classes which</page><page sequence="7">23 they term LD. The total similarity is then given by PD = ID * (1-Q) + LD * Q ID = g ( Zjf ( l*j-yj I ) ) LD = where Q and are specified weighting functions. Faith et al. proceed by defining V as one of a; Vij = b- / V = h( Rimase (p- I i- j I , I ì-j I ) ļ j / ij The forms are chosen to be symmetric and to reflect a desire that, as the classes become more different, the weighting be- comes less. The second alternative for V was given because in one example the authors dealt with monthly data which are, of course, cyclic; January is adjacent both to February and Decem- ber in their data. The user has now to supply values for Q and R. The functions f, g and h are chosen to normalise the various numbers to a convenient range, usually 0-1. There are some technical problems here because the form of function was prede- fined in the computer program and not chosen by the user who could well prefer other forms to define the filter function V, An even more general method has been developed by Werman et al. (1985), based on earlier work by Shen and Wong (1983). Given a frequency distribution they associate with each class a symbol. They then examine the actual distribution observed for some sample and from it derive a string of symbols, by re- peating the symbol for each class exactly the number of times that it is observed to occur in the data item. For example, given four classes, label them 1, 2, 3, 4. If we now observe a frequency distribution of the form = (2,3,5,1), we can write down the string as: 11222333334. We can now calculate a similar- ity in terms of matching strings. In the case that Werman et al. first examine, all strings happen to have the same length</page><page sequence="8">24 so they use a simple match distance, counting the minimal num- ber of changes required to convert one string to the other. This turns out to be related not to the distance between the original frequency distributions, but to the distance be- tween the two cumulative frequency distributions. The cumula- tive distribution for would be (2,5,10,11) if we assume the classes are linearly ordered left to right. It is also inter- esting to note that Ogben (1985) has reported the use of cumu- lative frequencies in the analysis of ordered contingency tables . What is hidden here is that the symbols for the classes need not be numeric, so that the definition of the 'distance' between two symbols is NOT related to some simple numeric dif- ference in the codes at all. Instead we can choose to regard the distance between two symbols to be at our choice. If, instead of the numbers used previously, we use alphabetic sym- bols, our Hę- string becomes ( AABBBCCCCCD ) , perhaps. In this more general case we can use various modifications of the Levenshtein distance (see e.g. Sankoff and Kruskal 1985) to provide our measure of dissimilarity of the strings, unrest- ricted by any temptations to employ the elements of the string as if they were numbers! The advantage becomes apparent if we consider two-dimensional frequency distributions. For example, we could have height class and age class for each specimen giving a table such as : height -&gt; 3 5 4 6 age 5 0 3 4 I 0 0 2 0 4 2 10 If we assign alphabetic symbols to the various classes, left to right and top to bottom, we obtain a string representation some- thing like AAABBBBBCCCCDDDDDDEEEEEGGGHHHHKKMMMMNNO</page><page sequence="9">25 The relationships between symbols can reflect the two-dimensional nature easily. We can define the distance from an A to a B to equal the distance from an A to an E, and perhaps also A to F if diagonal moves are allowed. A related approach to calculating the distance between finite areas is recorded in Moore (1979) but this is concerned with comparison of shapes and does not seem directly relevant to the present case. An example of the application of string distances can be found in Little and Ross (1985) and in Dale and Barson (in prep.). Cyclically ordered features pose no particular problems, but some normalisation may be needed if the symbol sequences for different samples are of different lenghts. Furthermore the differences between directed and undirected ordered attri- butes simply reflect an asymmetry in the distances, with A B # B A. In the simple one dimensional case, however, the cumula- tive frequency distribution can be used instead. Dale (unpublished, see Faith et al. 1985) had previously suggested the possibility of using cumulative frequencies. If we look at the cumulative frequencies for the four hypothe- tical samples and assume a linear ordering from left to right, we obtain the following: H1 = (16,0,0,0) H2 = (16,16,0,0) H3 = (16,16,16,16) H4 = (16,13,3,0) It is obvious that H^, H2 and are now better differentiated, and that the location of H4 will be somewhere between H2 and H3 but probably 'closer1 to H2# with most similarity measures. Thus a relatively simple transformation provides us with a sensible incorporation of the height class structural information, at least for directed ordered attributes. The user is faced with no problems of selecting weights in profusion, nor with defin- ing a filter function to arbitrate class differences.</page><page sequence="10">26 Nor is cumulation solely applicable to the case of linear directed ordering. In fact the use of cumulative frequencies, like the proposal of Werman et al. (1985), can be extended beyond the one dimensional case to incorporate tree structures, provided these, too, are directed; simply cumulate back from the final leaf nodes to the root node. The root node will contribute nothing, after normalisation, and this seems com- patible with the requirement expressed in cladistic taxonomy that the plesiomorphic , root, state should not contribute to similarity. Extension to loopless directed graphs also seems possible. Given trees for the states we could alternatively use the tree similarity measures already referenced, e.g. Lu (1984), to calculate the similarities for each attribute. The problem with this approach is that we then have to select some set of permissible changes, and it is not always clear what these should be, nor what differential weighting might be appropriate. Clearly, the directed nature of the class structure is important here. The process of cumulation is NOT symmetric; a property to which Faith et al. (1985) give considerable import- ance. Given that direction is important, in at least some cases, the simplicity of the use of the cumulative frequencies seems appealing. We have therefore presented an example of its appli- cation. The basic similarity measure used was not the Bray- Curtis measure in this case. Instead, we have used the second of the quantitative information measures defined by Dale and Anderson (1973) but applied to the cumulative frequencies. Ideally a special program would be written to perform the cal- culations, but it seemed desirable to determine first if the information obtainable from the use of cumulative frequencies differed much from that obtained by ignoring the structure, and if so, what new insight did it provide. To do this we re- tained the same classification program as was used with the uncumulated data, only modifying the data themselves to a cumu- lative format.</page><page sequence="11">27 DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS In a previous paper (Dale et al. 1984) data from Masthead Island, Great Barrier Reef, were analysed using a quantitative information statistic (Dale and Anderson 1973) included in the program NIASM of the TAXON package (Ross 1983). The vegetation attributes recorded were frequencies of tree species stratified in height classes of 2 m at 204 sites? arranged more or less on a systematic grid. From this analysis, 5 types of vegetation were identified, and related to the distribution of nests of Black Noddies (Anous minutus). The vegetation types identified appeared to be related to a disjunction between coastal and in- land location, and also to a process of succession. Each type was found to be related to particular nesting frequencies, and the types were clearly distinguished, allowing easy field re- cognition . The analysis disregarded the ordered nature of the height classes, regarding each 1 species-by-height class1 combination as an independent attribute. This mode of assessing similarly effectively ignores the relationship between the height class- es. Yet a tree 12 m high may well differ from a tree 10 m high only by the addition of an extra 2 m of potential nest space. Indeed, at some stage, a 12 m tree must actually have been a 10 m tree! In the cumulative data, the frequency of 12 m trees is relevant to all height classes up to and including the 12 m class. The data were reclassified using the cumulative data and the same NIASM program, though as noted earlier this is not the ideal method of analysis. RESULTS AND INTERPRETATIONS As expected; the results of the two classifications differ- ed. In Table 1, we show the differences in membership of the groups from the 2 analyses, using 5 groups from each analysis. In Table 2 we summarise the attribute characteristic combina- tions which distinguish the groups in both the cumulated and</page><page sequence="12">28 Table 1. Site-group arrangements for the cumulated and uncumu- lated analyses correspondences at the 5-group level. Entries are the number of sites shared by the corresponding groups. Cumulated Uncumulated groups groups 1 2 3 4 5 1 0 11 0 6 4 2 0 17 11 6 5 3 0 29 27 14 17 4 22 0 0 0 0 5 9 6 1 3 4 uncumulated analyses, indicating those shared by both classif- ications . In both classifications the major disjunction at the high- est level in the hierarchy separates coastal vegetation from the remainder. In the uncumulated analysis, the coastal vege- tation (group 1) is dominated by Casuarina of any height and with essentially no other species from the remainder. In the cumulative analysis the coastal groups 4 and 5 together are based on Casuarina &lt;12 m, together with rarer species such as Argusia, Pandanus and Cordia in the taller height categories. ( &gt; 6m) . Ficus and Ceitis, which are usually associated with the inland forests are of less importance as would be expected. The cumulative classification continues by subdividing the coastal forests into 2 subgroups. It separates the tall, re- latively pure Casuarina stands (group 4) from the mixed Casuarina (group 5). This latter has Casuarina in lower</page><page sequence="13">29 height classes and there are other associated species, notably Argusia at 4- 8 m, but also low Pisonia trees. Indeed the pre- sence of small Pisonia discriminates these 2 groups. Spatially the stands of group 4 are found most often on the northeast and southwest coasts, and not at all on the southeast coast. The group 5 stands occur more often on the southeast and northwest coasts. Neither of course occurs inland. In the non-coastal vegetation the lack of correspondence be- tween the two analyses is more marked as is clear from the tables. The uncumulated analysis subdivides inland Pisonia forests. Pisonia is clearly the dominant species and height of Pisonia the discriminant characteristic. In contrast the cumu- lative analysis subdivides the non-coastal vegetation based loosely on Ficus and Ceitis, which two species together provide less than 1/3 of the total trees. The groups are further diffe- rentiated mostly by the presence of less abundant species such as Cordia, Argusia and Pandanus , which comprise less than 1/8 of the total trees. Table 2 shows the spread of these groups across the uncumulated groups, which are obviously little relat- ed to them. The distinction between the two results can be sum- marised as follows. The uncumulated results give a clear pic- ture of the major vegetation types and their distribution, using essentially the height of Pisonia, except for the coast- al distinction. The cumulative results provide this in part but also provide considerable detail on relatively 'minor' com- ponents of the vegetation, de-emphasising the height of Pisonia as a discriminating factor. Taken together both analyses suggest some interesting fea- tures concerning the dynamics of the vegetation. The identifica- tion of the low Pisonia coastal group by the cumulative analysis is one such item; from the uncumulated results, the low Pisonia forests appeared to represent an undifferentiated early stage in succession following an acute environmental stress (or ca- tastrophe) such as cyclonic wind-throw; it is a wholly dynamic</page><page sequence="14">30 Table 2. Discriminating characteristics and their correspon- dence between cumulated and uncumulated groups . The charac- teristics are listed in order of importance. Entries are the number of shared characteristics. Subscripts indicate height classes as follows: 1= &lt; 2m, 2=&gt;2-4m, 3=&gt;4-6m, 4=&gt;6-8m, 5= &gt;8 -10m, 6=&gt;10-12m, 7=&gt;12m. Dendrograms are not to scale. [rPh from Uncumulated I data Inland Groups from Uncumulated data Coastal I Inland Camarina Pisonia Pisonia Pisania Pisonia Qr0Up low bw-med med-high tall Groups from ^ 1 2 3 4 5 Cumulated * Dłtł r1 0 1 2 2 1 Ftowi.5 *&amp;«&lt;&lt;• Pip*"" u I ... Camarina Pandaran ļ.J ^*""1 2 0 1 0 1 0 pixmia 5 Ficu,t 3 0 3 2 2 3 puonia^ Ficus Cordia , Coastal i 4 1 0 0 0 0 Casuarina I Coastal 5 0 1 2 2 1 Camarina Pisonia š * Argusia.. " 1*3 š * " ... Pandanus r*h¡* Ficus y ' ... 2-3 1-4 4-S / Casuarina Pisonia ^Pisoma Ą Pisonia s Pisonia^S. Cordia Ceitis 4 Ficus s Ficus 4.5 / Characters of Pandanus Ficus J4 Pipturus 2 Ficus 7 ' Characters of S Uncumulated CtUis , Pipami Celta , 2 Ceitis ¡ 7 Cumulated S Groups F¡cus^ , , ¡ 'Groups</page><page sequence="15">31 grouping. In the cumulative results a further type of low Pisonia forest was identified, associated with Ca suar ina in the coastal vegetation. This represents perhaps a less dynamic vegetation type in which the growth of invading Pisonia is arrested by a chronic environmental stress, such as wind shear- ing. Indeed the type appears more frequently in areas exposed to the trade winds on the south east coast, where wind shear reduces Pisonia trees to &lt;3m with marked horizontal trunca- tion. A simple test of this would be to attempt to age Pisonia trees from the coastal and gap-phase types. The cumulative analysis does, then, provide some new and different information, and in the manner expected. The height information, especially in the smaller height classes, has been down-weighted in comparison to the diversity information, as might be expected since we are in effect correcting for the correlation of the classes. It does not, in this case, offer a better relationship to Noddy nesting. It seems that the rarer elements which contribute to the greater dif f erentation are not associated with nesting of Noddies in any simple manner. Noddies, of course, feed offshore, and the trees are solely nest sites. For resident passerines, such as the Silvereye ( Zosterops lateralis), Ficus is a major food source, though Pisonia remains the major nest site. Thus we might expect ve- getation types from the cumulative analysis to be more useful for this species. The choice between cumulated and uncumulated analyses is not clearcut, and should be regarded as complement- ary, not competitive. CONCLUSIONS The results we have obtained were satisfactory in showing how cumulative attributes can be used in numerical classifica- tions. In some cases, this can be very useful in emphasising, or de-emphasising, particular features of the data. For example height class might be regarded as a surrogate measure for ma- turity or age, and its inclusion would then indicate something</page><page sequence="16">32 of the dynamics of the vegetation. Such a possibility is sup- ported by our analyses here where both sets of results suggest spatial and temporal patterns, at various scales. Having shown this potential, there is equally obviously a need for more extensive study of more appropriate analytic meth- ods, and assessment of the various alternative proposals from treating structured data. The advantages of the cumulative fre- quency approach are restrcited to directed frequency data. However, it does not involve any arbitrary choice of weights or filter functions, nor assume equal class intervals. Further, it can be combined with a variety of similarity measures, and this combination is intrinsic rather than a simple arithmetic mean. Extensions to cover more complex types of structures, including the character state trees of some methods of numeric- al cladistics, remain to be evaluated. REFERENCES Ben-Bassat, M. and L. Zaidenberg. 1984. Contextual template matching: a distance measure for patterns with hierarchic- ally dependent features. IEEE Trans. Patt. Anal. Mach. Intel. PAMI-6 : 2 0 1-2 11 Bhattacharya, A. 1943. On discrimination and divergence. Proc. 29-th Indian Sci. Cong. II. 13-20 Bray, J. R. and J. C. Curtis. 1957. An ordination of upland forest communities of southern Wisconsin. Ecol. Monographs 27:325-349 Dale, M. B. and D. J. Anderson. 1973. Qualitative and quantit- ative information analysis. J. Ecol. 60:639-657 Dale, M. B. and M. Barson (in prep.) What comes after the classification: a look at strings and grammars. Dale, P., K. Hulsman, B. R. Jahnke and M. B. Dale. 1984. Vege- tation and nesting preferences of black noddies at Masthead Island, Great Barrier Reef. I. Patterns at the macro scale. Austral. J. Ecol. 9:335-341 Estabrook, G. F. 1972. Cladistic methodology: a discussion of the theoretical basis for the induction of evolutionary history. Ann. Rev. Ecol. Syst. 4:427-456 Faith, D. P., M. P. Austin, L. Belbin and C. R. Margules. 1985. Numerical classification of profile attributes in environ- mental studies. J. Environ. Manag. 20:73-85</page><page sequence="17">33 Ito, T., Y. Kodama and J. Toyoda. 1984. A similarity measure between patterns with nonindependent attributes. IEEE Trans. Patt. Anal. Mach. Intel. PAMI-6 : 111-115 Laaka, P., K. Laaka and R. Aaberge. 1985. On the problem of measuring the distance between distribution functions: analysis of hospitalization versus mortality. Biometrics 41:515-523 Lance, G. N. 1970. Mixed and discontinuous data. In: R. S. An- derssen and M. R. Osborne (eds), Data Representation. Queens- land University Press, St. Lucia, pp. 102-107 Lance, G. N. and W. T. Williams. 1967a. Mixed data classifica- tory programs. I. Agglomerative systems. Austral. Comput . J. 1:1-6 Lance, G. N. and W. T. Williams. 1967b. Note on the classifica- tion of multilevel data. Comput. J. 9:381-382 Little, I. P. and D. R. Ross. 1985. The Levenshtein metric; a new means for soil classification tested by data from a sand-podzol chronosequence and evaluated by discriminant analysis. Aust. J. Soil. Res. 23:115-130 Lu, S-Y. 1984. A tree-matching algorithm based on node splitting and merging. IEEE Trans. Patt. Anal. Mach. Intel. PAMI-6: 249-256 Michalski; R. S. and R. E. Stepp. 1983. Automated construction of classifications: conceptual clustering versus numerical taxonomy. IEEE Trans. Patt. Anal. Mach. Intel. PAMI-6: 396-410 Moore, R. K. 1979. A dynamic programming algorithm for the dis- tance between two finite areas. IEEE Trans. Patt . Anal. Mach. Intel. PAMI-l:86-88 Ogborn, J. 1984. Cumulative and local odds-ratio measures of uniformity of association in two-way ordered contingency tables. Brit. J. Math. Statist. Psychol. 37:89-99 Price, L. C., C. M. Dayton and G. B. Macready. 1980. Discovery algorithms for hierarchical relationships. Psychometrika 45:449-466 Proctor, J. and W. B. Kendrick. 1963. Unequal weighting in numerical taxonomy. Nature 197:716-717 Ross, D. 1983. TAXON users' manual P3B CSIRO, Div. Computing Research, pp. 190 Sankoff, D. and J. B. Kruskal. 1985. "Time Warps, String Edits and Macromolecules . " Addison Wesley, New York Shen, H. C. and A. K. C. Wonf . 1983. Generalized texture repre- sentation and metric. Comput. Vision Graphics Image Process. 23:187-206 Weir, A. G. 1970. Program NEWCLAS : a classif icatory program for mixed data. CSIRO, Div. Water Land Resources, Techn. Memo. 70/5. pp. 10</page><page sequence="18">34 Werman, M., S. Pelg and A. Rosenfeld. 1985. A distance metric for multidimensional histograms. Comput . Vision Graphics and Image Process. 32:328-336 Williams, W. T. 1969. The problem of attribute weighting in numerical classification. Taxon 18:369-374 Williams, W. T. 1973. Partition of information: the CENTPERC problem. Austral. J. Bot. 21:277-281 Williams, W. T. and M. B. Dale. 1962. Partition correlation matrices for heterogeneous quantitative data. Nature 196:502 Zadeh, L. 1965. Fuzzy sets. Inform. Control. 8:338-353 (Received June 20, 1986)</page></plain_text>