<plain_text><page sequence="1">262 were Lignieres on the French, and Fairlight Down, near Hastings, on the English side. The operations at the former were made by Captain Sabine and Colonel Bonne; those at the latter by Mr. Her- schel and Mr. Largeteau; thus securing two independent lines of communication, a British and a French, between the extreme sta- tions, and observers at each station exchanging observations at the termination of the whole operation, which was continued for twelve nights, ten signals being made at each station per night; and though the whole of them could not be employed, it is stated that the final result, which makes the difference of longitude between the two ob- servatories equal to 9' 21'1 6, is not very likely to be found one tenth of a second in error, and extremely unlikely to prove erroneous to twice that amount. The observations are then stated in detail; and the mode of com- bining them in the most impartial manner, so as to deduce from them the most advantageous result, is next investigated; and a general formula deduced applicable to all operations of the kind, and in- cluding all the necessary corrections. This formula is then applied to the actual observations, and the result above mentioned deduced. I'he two results deduced by considering separately the observations- of the British and of the French observers, at the intermediate sta- tions, exhibit a remarkable coincidence,-their difference amounting to only a single hundredth of a second. Observations on the Poison of the Common Toad. By John Davy, M.D. F.R.S. Read December 22, 1825. [Phil. Trans. 1826, Part II. p. 127.] After adverting to the correctness of the popular opinion respect- ing the poisonous nature of the toad, which the professed naturalist has generally rejected, the author proceeds to describe the seat of the poison, which is chiefly in follicles in the cutis vera, and which, on pressure, exude from it in the form of a thick yellowish fluid, which, on evaporation, yields a transparent residue, very acrid, and acting on the tongue like extract of aconite. It is neither acid nor alkaline'; and since a chicken inoculated with it received no injury, it does not appear to be 'noxious when absorbed and carried into the circulation. Indeed, although it chiefly abounds in the integuments of the toad, the author also detected it in the bile, the urine, and in small quan- tity in the blood. Dr. Davy thinks that the principal use of this poison is to defend the reptile against the attacks of carnivorous animals; he also re- nmarks, that as it contains an inflammable substance, it may be con- sidered as excrernentitious; it may serve to carry off a portion of carbon from the blood, and thus be auxiliary to the function of the lungs. In support of this idea, the author observes that he finds each of the pulmolnary arteries of the toad divided into two branches, one of which goes to the lung, and the other to the cutis, ramifying most abundantly where the la.rgest venous follicles are situated, and</page><page sequence="2">263' where there is a large venous plexus, corresponding to the site of the tadpole's gills, and seeming to indicate that the subcutaneous distri- bution of the second branch of the pulmonary artery may further aid the office of the lungs by bringing the blood to the surface to be acted on by the air. The author concludes this paper by stating, that he has endeavoured to trace a direct communication by spiracula through the integuments, but has only obtained negative results, never having succeeded in forcing the smallest bubble of air through the skin. On the magnetizing Power of the more refrangible Solar Rays. By Mrs. M. Somerville. Communicated byW. Somerville, M.D. F.R.S. February 2, 1826. Read February 2, 1826. [Phil. Trans. 1826, Part II. p. 132.] In the year 1813, Professor Morichini, of Rome, announced that steel exposed in a particular manner to the concentrated violet rays of the prismatic spectrum becomes magnetic. His experiments, how- ever, having uniformly failed in other hands, had ceased to excite gene- ral attention; especially in this country, whose climate is usually so unfavourable for such researches. The unusual clearness of weather last summer, however, induced Mrs. Somerville to make the attempt. H1-aving, at that time, no information of the manner in which Prof. Morichini's experiments were conducted, it occurred to her, however, as unlikely that if the whole of a needle were equally exposed to the violet rays, the same influence should at the same time produce a south pole at one end, and a north at the other of it. She therefore covered half of a slender sewing needle, an inch long, with paper, and fixed it in such a manner as to expose the uncovered part to the vio- let rays of a spectrum, thrown by an equiangular prism of flint glass on a panel at five feet distance. As the place of the spectrum shifted, the needle was moved so as to keep the exposed part constantly in the violet ray. The sun being bright, in less than two hours the needle, which before the experiment showed no signs of polarity, had become magnetic; the exposed end attracting the south pole of a suspended magnetic needle, and repelling the north. No iron was near to disturb the experiment, which was repeated the same day, under similar circumstances, with a view to detect any source of fal- lacy in the first attempt, but with the same result. The season continuing favourable, afforded daily opportunities of repeating and varying the experiment. Needles of various sizes (all carefully ascertained to be free from polarity), and exposed in va- rious positions with regard to the magnetic dip and meridian, almost all became magnetic; some in a longer, some in a shorter time, va- rying from half an hour to four hours, but depending on circum- stances not apparent. The position of the needles seems to have had no influence, but the experiments were generally more success- ful from 10 to 12 or 1 o'clock than later in the day. The exposed portion of the needle became (vwith a few exceptions) a north pole;</page></plain_text>