<plain_text><page sequence="1">542 cold far below those hitherto attained by the employment of the latter substance. Ammonia was obtained in the state of solid white crystals, and retained this form at a temperature of --103?. The following liquids could not be made to freeze at -166?; namely, chlorine, ether, alcohol, sulphuret of carbon, caoutchoucine, camphine, and rectified oil of turpentine. The following gases showed no signs of liquefaction when cooled by the carbonic acid bath, even when subjected to great pressure; namnely, -Hydrogen, Oxygen, at a pressure of .... 27 atmospheres. Nitrogen and nitric oxide at a pressure of 50 atmospheres. Carbonic oxide at a pressure of ........ 40 atmospheres. Coal-gas at a pressure of.............. 32 atmospheres. January 23, 1845. SIR JOHN WILLIAM LUBBOCK, Bart., V.P. and Treas. in the Chair. 1. "Observations de la Declinaison et Intensite Horizontales Mag- netiques observees a Milan pendant vingt-quatre heures consecutives le 29 et 30 de D.ecembre 1844." Par M. Carlini. 2. " Remarks having reference to the Earthquake felt in Demle- rara on the morning of the 30th of August 1844." By Daniel Blair, Esq., Colonial Surgeon of British Guiana. Communicated by the Right Honourable Lord Stanley. The earthquake here described commenced at twenty-seven mi- nutes past three o'clock, a.m. on the 30th of August, and continued during two or three minutes. It appeared to be composed of two waves or pulsations quickly succeeding each other, and producing gyratory movements of the earth. Though the alarm it occasioned was very great, no serious damage seems to have resulted from it. 3. "An Account of the artificial formation of a Vegeto-alkali." By George Fownes, Esq., Chemical Lecturer in the Medical School of the Middlesex Hospital. Communicated by Thomas Graham, Esq., F.R.S., Professor of Chemistry in University College. The substance which is the sulject of investigation in this paper is a volatile oil, obtained by distillation firom a mixture of bran, sul- plhuric acid and water, and is designated by the author by the name of furfurol. Its chemical composition is expressed by the formula C15 H6 06, and its properties are the following:-When firee from water and freshly rectified, it is nearly colourless; but after a few hours, it acquires a brownish tint, which eventually deepens almost to blackness. When in contact witli water, or when not properly rendered anhydrous, it is less subject to change, and merely assumes a yellow colour. Its odour resembles that of a mixture of bitter almond oil and oil of cassia, but has less fragrance. Its specific</page></plain_text>