<plain_text><page sequence="1">Abstracta Botanica 15:31-35 (1991) ( C ) Department oí Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, ELTE, Budapest Ecology and Economics: in Search of Unity P. Juhász-Nagy1 &amp; L. Zsolnai2 1 Department of Plant Taxonomy and Ecology, L. Eotvos University , Ludovika tér 2, H- 108 3 Budapest 2 Department of Business Economics , Budapest University of Economics Keywords: biomes, ecosystems, history, nature Abstract: Economics, in its present form, is immanently counter-ecological, since it justifies the self-interest behaviour of economic actors and fully disregards ecological values such as diversity, complexity and stability of ecosysytems. This short paper tries to trace some historical turning points of both ecology and economics during a long and tedious search of a more consistent unity. An ecologically sound economics is possible if and only if natural ecosystems are considered as functional entities valuable in and for themselves in the process of economizing. [1] A historical praeambulum In spite of the common ethimology1 and a fairly long common history, ecology and economics have started just recently - say, from the 1960's on - to understand the true arguments of each other from a proper point of view. A search of unity, however, is still a timely and a very diffi- cult job for a number of reasons. One reason is that even the most relevant ecological textbooks (e.g., Ricklefs2) are not able to present a clear- cut picture of the true relationships. Our brief sketch3 is just an exposition of the problem. By looking back a bit, it is easy to see that the early views of "oikos-ideals" were extremely naïve and irrealistic during long centuries. This general naivete, a rather primitive parallelism between ecology and economy, has been over- vi e wed p ri m ar i 1 y by s 1 1 c 1 1 g reat thin ke rs as Linné, A. v. Humboldt, H. Thoreau, and a few others4 . In order to keep away from the fairly com- plicated maze of frequently confused "proto- ideals", we may confine ourselves to mention but a few historical "milestones'1 as some turn- ing points of mentality changes. Our first milestone may be the beginning of the long-lived dispute on the problems of "balance of Nature"5. Although this dispute raised fertile early views as well (like the " epi - harmonie" hypothesis of Humboldt based on "division du travail"), we can see by now that without evolution, without "processing", al- most all arguments are meaningless or mislead- ing (not to speak of the necessary but much later clarified distinctions between equilibria and sta- tionary states of nature.) This is why our second milestone is tho aj&gt;-</page><page sequence="2">32 Juhász-Nagy &amp; Zsolnai: Ecology and economics pearance and development of evolutionary the- ories; including difficult and still rapidly grow- ing fields such as evolutionary ecology, human ecology, co-evolutionary theories, etc.6 As Pan- caldi 's excellent book7 shows it properly, Dar- win was the first genius whose concepts, guesses, distinctions (say, between the very long- termed natural processes and the sftorż-circuitry of hu- man activities) have suggested almost all the common roots of further development; includ- ing a very important impetus on a new his- torical period of ecology8. In order to recog- nize these common roots, however, humankind and science needed many factual and theoreti- cal discoveries (about the cycling and recycling of resources9, for example, a better global view of the biosphere10 , and, finally, the tremendous shocks of our "environmental crisis" (indicated, firsj;, by pioneering books such as G. Hardin's "Nature and Man's Fate" [1959] and R. Carson's " Silent Spring" [1962]). As it is well-known, this "global alarm" was the main motivation which inspired science to launch world-wide cooper- ations exemplified by the IBP, (started in the mid- 1960's). This is why the activity of the International Biological Program (IBP) is our third milestone. Although IBP had a rather zig-zag develop- ment11, and although post-IBP science raised severe criticism against the vulgar suggestions of the "matter-energy machines" of najture, the most important achievement of IBP, without doubt, is the emergence of the concept of ecosys- tem, and the view which may consider the bio- sphere as a global ecosystem . This view permits us to recognize either the biomes (in a phenomenological way) or the ecosystems (in a functional way) as the most important entities of nature12. Its relevant properties (diversity, complexity, stability, etc.) have to he not. only "objective attributes" but also value categories which are the only right- ful "standards of attitude" for the humankind either morally or in a scientific way (e.g., in reinterpreting the relation between ecology and economics.) It is to be noted, of course, that from a scientific point of view both ecology and eco- nomics should learn a lot from each other. For instance, D. Tilman, in his excellent book13, uses the concepts "pay-off" and "trade-off' in a rather loose, metaphorical sense of the words. It would be desirable for many ecologists to know that such a modelling has a rich tradi- tion in econometrics14. It needs, of course, some tremendous effort of many ecologists to de- velop proper pay-off/t rade-off modeling in the future in order to represent the "adaptational- -com promising rules" of nature (in particular, during some relevant changes of ecosystems). [2] Some historical interambulum By turning now from ecology to economics, we trace back to the main historical roots of the counter-ecological character of modern eco- nomics. We confine again ourselves to mention a few authors and schools and refer only to some recent and up-to-date books15. The over-glorification of self-interest as a ba- sic motive of human behaviour has been stated by Bernard de Mandeville's provoking book. "The Fable of the Bees" (1714). According to de Mandeville, public benefits are the results of private vices. Decades later, Adam Smith , in his "Wealth of Nations", turned this argument into the famous doctrine of invisible hand. The literal apotheosis of the self-interest motive was formulated by the German economist, Herrman Gossen (1854). His golden rule stated that " organize your actions for your own benefit". This principle was anticipated by the marginal- ist theory of Jewons and Menger , so it became the central dogma of modern economics. Nature has long been disregarded also in ea&gt; nomics. In the 17th cent ury, John Locke , the fa-</page><page sequence="3">Abstracta, Botanica 15 (1991) ther of the labour theory of value, held the view that only human labour can produce value. He treated land as negligible as far as the economic order is concerned. The main course of eco- nomic thought followed Locke in this respect. David Ricardo has developed the labour theory of value in the 19th century, denying any contri- bution by land to the determination of exchange value or price. Note that Karl Marx did practi- cally the same. Marginalist economists rejected the labour theory of value but they did not re- turn to analysing the contribution of nature to the production. On the contrary, they found the way in which subjective individual prefer- ences, aggregated through the market, establish prices. As a result, modern economics has come to treat land merely as space and expandable, or easily substitutable capital In the modern economist's view land is neither an important factor of production nor a fundamental contrib- utor to human well-being. Economic actors pursuing their own self-inter- est and disregarding the ecological values are, indeed, very free riders on natural ecosystems. They are interested in neither the impacts of their activities on natural environment nor in the severe ecological problems generated. In our modern economics an invisible foot rather than an invisible hand is functioning, that is self- interest- minded economic behaviour produces frequently public bads instead of public goods. It is to be noted, of course, that certain economists (e.g., those who were close to agro- economics) have tried systematically to reject or revise at least some principles of the main course of economics but without much success for a surprisingly long time. Also, the mental difficulties are shown clearly by the too long "di- gestion periods" of important publications such as the famous paper by Garett Hardin16, "The tragedy of the commons". Anyway, this vory rel- evant paper, inter aliaf indicated a turning point, of some mentality change and the bogen ni ng of 33 a new period of "alternative thinking" (repre- sented by Schumacher, E. Fromm and others). The arguments of G . Hardin, rich in historical and ecological implications, show only the need of a radical reinterpretation. As an outlook of this short paper we try to summarize such a short reinterpretation (without trying to be "too original"). [3] On some principles The basic problem is how to organize economic activities in a way compatible with the organi- zation of nature. The main principles of such an ecological economizing can be as follows: (i) Nature knows best; (ii) maximal carefulness; (iii) beauty is good; (iv) sustanaible use. (i) 99 Nature knows best" means that we cannot find right standards in our actions concerning nature other than the patterns of original, undis- turbed biomes or ecosystems. Thus, allowing some strictly necessary activities, we should not try to create "better-artificial" forms, viz. pat- terns of nature. This principle does not repre- sent a new idolatry of nature or some kind of pantheism but it admits our ignorance of too many ecological laws and limitations of science, and it stresses a wise recognition of the evolution of life on Earth (s'il vous plaît, the self- regulat- ing "Gaia-character" of the biosphere1 ' ). (ii) The principle of maximal carefulness de- mands that we should examine very carefully our actual knowledge and ignorance concern- ing ecosystems in the case of all actions that make essential influence (impact) on nature. In other words, we can make justifiable plans for actions only after a series of careful studies and self-examination. During the implementation of our plans we should pay serious attention to the indications that nature sends to us. (It is to</page><page sequence="4">34 Juhász-Nagy &amp; Zsolnai: Ecology and economics be noted that actotdiftg tö a "getterai iftdicator theory", nature indicates all relevant relations but our ability of decoding or interpreting the results is very limited.) (iii) " Beauty is good" means that the aesthet- ical character of natural biomes or ecosystems is not accidental at all. If beauty is an essen- tial manifestation of the evolving biomes, then we can imagine that this property has been an "evolutionary experience" for the evolving hu- mankind. According to Konrad Lorenz, hu- man beings have an unconscious, archetypical picture (or, rather, a series of pictures) about the original, undisturbed biomes; healthy and well-functioning ecosystems have no "insulting effects on archetypical ideas". For this reason, human actions which result in ugly, unaestheti- cal states and forms of "pseudo- natu re" cannot be good in an ecological sense. (iv) The principle of sustainable use demands that the most relevant structural and functional properties of biomes (or ecosystems) should be statistically invariant during human use. This statement has two implications considering hu- man inputs and outputs. The ideal input is that only the surplus or slack produced by the ecosystems may be used without restrictions. The ideal output is that all matter and energy directed into ecosystems must be fully absorbe- able and degradable by them. We are not experts in the field of organic agri- culture but as far as we know its methods and practice18 we guess that organic agriculture is fairly close to the principles of ecological econo- mizing indicated here. People, working in agriculture or elsewhwere, need to find a new attitude toward nature. This attitude can be formed by some components of an ecological moral such as love and reverence . We are quite convinced that nature is not only a certain kind of capital but, something of the sacred19 . Notes (1) The common root is "oikos" (in Greek) or "oecus" (in Latin); further, ecology and economics is derived from "oikos-logos" and "oikos-nomos" , respectively, where "nomos" means, roughly, "law" of some kind. (2) Ricklefs, R. E. 1976: Economy of Nature, MacMil- lan, New York. It is to be noted that there is no single textbook of any language (known to us), where a satisfactory "ecology versus economics" chapter can be found. (3) Our manuscript, in its original form, was pre- pared as a textual base for a talk at the 8th Inter- national Conference of Socio-Economics of Organic Agri-Culture ; August 27-30, 1990; Budapest (4) Stauffer, R. C. 1960: Ecology in the long manu- script version of Darwin's Origin of Species and Lin- naeus' Oeconomy of Nature. Proc. Amer. Philos. Soc., 104:235-241 Worster, D. 1977: Nature's Economy: A History of Ecological Ideals. Cambridge Univ. Press, Cam- bridge (5) Limoges, C. (ed.) 1975: L'Equilibre de la Na- ture. P. U. F., Paris Egerton, F. N. 1973: Changing concepts in the balance of nature. Quart. Rev. Biol., 48:322-350 (6) Pianka, E. R. 1978: Evolutionary Ecology. 2nd edn. Harper and Row, New York Roughgarden, J. 1978: Theory of Population Ge- netics and Evolutionary Ecology: An Introduction. MacMillan, New York Fontdevila, A. 1989: Evolutionary Biology of Tran- sient Unstable Populations. Springer, Berlin Futuyuma, D. - M. Slatkin 1983: Coevolution. Sin- auer Ass., Sunderland, Mass. Young, G. L. 1974: Human ecology as an interdis- ciplinary subject: a critical inquiry. Advances of Ecol. Res., 8:2-105 (7) Pancaldi, G. 1977: Charles Darwin: Storia" ed "Economia della Natura". Nuova Italia. Firenze (8) Vorzimmer, P. J. 1965: Darwin's ecology and its influence upon his theory. Isis 56:48-55 Acot, P. 1983: Darwin et l'écologie. Revue d'Histoire des Sciences, 36: 33-48 Harper, J. L. 1976: A Darwinian approach to plant ecology. J. Ecol. 55: 247-270 (9) Clark, C. W. 1976: Mathematical Biocconomies The Opt imal Management of Renewable Resources</page><page sequence="5">Abstracta Botanica 15 (1991) 35 Wiley, New York (Note that the 2nd edition this very relevant book is coming out soon.) Zimmerman, K. F. 1989: Economic Theory of Op- timal Population. Springer, Berlin (10) Note that the concept " biosphere" emerged slowly just in the beginning of our century (coined first by Swiss geographers, members of the Ver- nadsky group, some others). It is a bit surprising that we have only recently such relevant books like Rambler, B. M. et al. (eds.) 1989: Global Ecol- ogy: Towards a Science of the Biosphere. Academic Press, San Diego Botkin, B. 1990: Discordant Harmonies: A New Ecology for the Twenty-First Century. Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford (11) Worthington, E. B. (ed.) 1975: The Evolution of ĪBP. Cambridge Univ. Press, Cambridge (12) A short remark is in order. We may rightly consider titles or slogans " Ecosystem as a system " as a joke of the worst kind; this silly pleionasm shows clearly the need of a better distinction between en- tities of phenomenologically descriptive terms (like forest, meadow, lake, etc.) and entities of func- tional terms (like ecosystems), where the presence of a model (e.g. , a system model) is always a minimal condition for any clear statement. (13) Tilman, D. 1988: Plant Strategies and the Dynamics and Structure of Plant Communities. Princeton Univ. Press, Princeton (14) For instance, Keeney, R. L. - H. Raiffa 1976: De- cisions with Multiple Objectives: Preferences and Value Tradeoffs. Wiley, New York (15) Hardin, G. - J. Baden (eds.) 1977: Managing the Commons. Freeman, San Francisco Daly, H. E. (ed.) 1980: Ecology, Economics, Ethics. Freeman, San Francisco Daly, H. E. - J. B. Cobb, Jr. 1990: For the Common Good. Green Print, London (16) Hardin, G. 1968: The tragedy of the commons. Science, 132: 1243- 1248 (17) Lovelock, J. 1988: The Ages of GAIA. (A biography of our living Earth.) Oxford Univ. Press, Oxford (18) For instance, Staub, H. A. 1983: Alterna- tive Landwirtschaft. Fischer Taschenbuch Verlag, Stuttgart (19) Bateson, G. - M. C. Bateson 1987: Angels Fear: Towards an Epistemology of the Sacred. MacMii- lan, New York Received March 15, 1991</page></plain_text>